1st, this is a PRODUCT review, ONLY.

Why is there not a 3D edition, which includes the "Christmas Carol" mini-movie!?? (or the other special features included in the non-3D Blu-Ray edition??)
Why are there TWO blu-ray discs (the movie & more special features) on the STANDARD Blu-Ray release... but NOT for the 3D release???

More importantly, WHY, are these Dummies making us pay for STANDARD DVDS!?
HELLO, WE UPGRADED TO BLU-RAY FOR A REASON!
Why, habitually, stick the Consumer, with something they DO NOT WANT... give us NO  NON-DVD-included & therefore slightly Cheaper alternative; and then slap us in the face a second time by forcing us to choose either the 2D Blu-Ray w/ more features & "mini-movie", or the superior-watching-experience of the 3D Version with LESS features & NO "Christmas Carol movie", which HELLO, is why people are upgrading to 3D-TVs!

I'm so sick of this entire Industry. I've refused to buy past releases which had Theatrical 3D screenings; but which were not given 3D Blu-Ray releases... because I knew (and have been proven right, again & again), that if I just waited 2-6 Months, they'd FINALLY release the movie in Blu-Ray 3D... thus showing, with my purchase (and initial, failure to purchase) what these idiots should be doing, and that I, and many others, were tired of this "Edition" game.

Now, these LOSERS, have formulated yet another way, to SCREW THE CONSUMER. Fantastic, way to go, ladies & gentlemen.. you must be exceptionally proud of yourselves. Would you like me to just mail you my wallet & let you decide what I should purchase?... because clearly you've ignored the masses who wait to buy the 3D releases when they're initially withheld... and you've clearly ignored the Millions (if not Billions) of ticked-off customer-reviews, critic-blogs, and so forth, over the last 2 or 3 years (longer, if you take out the 3D element).... clearly, you know better than we do, what we want and when we want it.

So, I guess I'll do the only thing I'm left with doing at this point... buy the superior movie-watching-experience edition (ie, 3D)... and hope I can borrow, rent, or download it.  Congratulations... instead of making a satisfied customer, you've made a ticked-off customer, who has to download your content (from one of the countless 'share' sites)... when I'd GLADLY, GLADLY mind you, have had THAT 2nd Blu-Ray disc w/ the mini-movie & extra features, in my 3D Edition, instead of an unwanted, lesser-quality, DVD disc, which always either gets tossed, or given away... and PERHAPS, would've even Gladly paid $1 extra, to have that substitution available as an option!

And you Industry-Dopes wonder why so many people PIRATE YOUR MOVIES / CONTENT / ETC!... Hello!... they're tired of NOT getting their money's worth... they're TIRED of the "ultimate"/"deluxe"/"collector"/etc. Edition-Game.... and they're TIRED of YOU, telling them what they want, instead of EARNING our business, like any GOOD / NORMAL, business would do.

(PS: every time someone gives away, or sells, those Unwanted DVDs in your IDIOTIC "combo-packs", that's 1 Regular-DVD-Release SALE which you LOSE... Duh!... and again, I ask, how is it, you still wonder, and ponder over the dilemma, of how to increase sales & decrease piracy!? How many times, exactly, must we, the Consumer, tell you what we want, before we finally give up, and stop buying all-together?  I'm not even a "Smurf" fan. I thought the movie was decent... could've done without the blatant & irritating product-placement & glamorization of certain things, behaviors, etc... could've been a lot better... and yes, I'm still just as ticked-off, despite the fact that I would give this movie only 3.5 stars (at best)... it's the PRINCIPLE, not the movie, so don't waste your breath saying "oh, that person's just a smurf-fanatic" or something just as ridiculous -- that would be your Denial & Self-Deception speaking; and it won't give you an "out" this time, sorry.)

Common sense... not really so common anymore, is it?