This movie is so much fun. Back in the 70s, when I was the only geek girl in high school reading THE LORD OF THE RINGS and all titles by Jane Austen, little did I suspect that anyone would ever make hugely popular movies out of what (at that time) was fare for only the most devoted of bookworms.

The adaptation of this classic author by actor/screenwriter Emma Thompson is superb. However, many of the other reviewers have praised Thompson's brilliance in detail, so instead I'll touch on another favorite feature of mine: the supporting cast.

Remember Siegfried Farnon, the older, robust vet from ALL CREATURES GREAT AND SMALL? His name is Robert Hardy and here he plays the kindly but rambunctious uncle. Somehow, somewhere they found an actress to play his mother who is so like Robert Hardy in looks and personality, you'd swear they were blood relatives. This lively, raucous pair gift the Dashwood sisters and their bereaved mother with a humble cottage when they're left homeless (or, rather, mansionless) by the death of their father. Generous deeds aside, if there's juicy gossip to be had, these two will be sure to "winkle it out of you."

There are too many wonderful supporting roles in this movie filled by excellent actors, so I'll mention just one more. Harriet Walter plays Fanny Dashwood to perfection - the stingy in-law who's gone power-drunk now that her husband has inherited the home and wealth his sisters have just lost. In one pivotal scene, Fanny coaxes the secretly engaged Lucy Steele to spill her romantic secret. "I'm as silent as the grave," says the horrible Fanny, leaning in close to the unsuspecting girl. As she leans, you get the distinct impression she *is* the grave. And all from one look. Harriet Walter plays the villain with a sense of humor about herself that can only be described as delicious.

The title of this story refers to the dispositions of the two older Dashwood sisters. "Sense" is the practical and commonsense Elinor, played by Emma Thompson - the ultra-responsible elder sister who appears not to give in to the longings of her heart. "Sensibility" refers to the demonstrative Miss Marianne, played by Kate Winslet, who wears her heart on her sleeve and pooh-poohs anyone who doesn't. Through a series of misunderstandings, plus a fine collection of hilarious and dramatic incidents, the tables are turned and the sisters walk a mile in one another's shoes.

My husband enjoyed this one as much as I did. And I'm pleased to report that the movie is 100% worthy of the book.