The movie opens up with enough potential, and with a pretty interesting idea: the sun is dying, and the crew essentially need to restart it. The initial crew that went out to attempt to do the same thing, Icarus I, mysteriously disappeared. Of course, the crew of Icarus II hear the distress call that was masked by the gravity of Venus, and decide to alter their course to use the payload to double their chances of recharging the sun.

So far so good. At this point, the movie is moving at a brisk pace. with a surprisingly good performance by Chris Evans who places the mission above all things. Also, the movie portrays what life on a ship must be like, especially for one of this length: the ship has an on board psychologist, an 'Earth Room" to de-stress oneself, a replenishing oxygen/fauna room, ect ect. The point where the Icuras II comes into contact with Icuras I is where the movie falls apart.

Of course, following the conventions of the thriller, something goes wrong. And the tension is HIGH, Danny Boyle does a fantastic job of conveying the urgency of getting back to the Icurus II. After a miraculous jump through space, the crew comes back, but unknowingly, with an extra passenger. Who do you think sabotaged the linking of the ships in the first place?

After this, rather than go on a philosophical angle like "Solaris", it takes notes from "Event Horizon", the movie reduces itself to a slasher/horror movie. Thats right, the single living crew member of the Icurus I is still alive, still able to speak, still able to run around not only normally, but superhumanly, and is pretty damn strong, goes around the Icurus II, because he's had conversations with God. An interesting idea that is ultimately executed terribly. The script could have used another revision or two or three to rework this entire act and the motivation of the stowaway.

Over all, the movie is in a pretty wrapper, but nothing much else. It is beautifully filmed, great acting, Boyle's directing is up to par, as per usual, but over all, a major disappointment.