I was only a few years old when Apollo 13 propelled Jim Lovell, Jack Swigert, and Fred Haise into space, and I had no idea about what happened on that spaceflight for another decade or so, when as a teenager I watched a retrospective of the flight on the news magazine 20/20.

Over 200,000 miles from home, traveling through the icy vacuum of space faster than any humans in history save for thier six colleagues on Apollo 11 and 12, a mysterious explosion rocks Apollo 13.  There's nowhere to "pull over."  They have lost a large amount of thier oxygen supply, and what breathable air they have is being slowly poisoned by the carbon dioxide they breathe out.  Most of their battery power is also gone; the electricity they have remaining would barely be sufficient to run a small household appliance for a few hours.

Their available navigational controls, given these circumstances, are little more than dead reckoning along with advice from Mission Control in Houston.  And if they somehow manage to survive long enough to get back to Earth, it is uncertain if the explosion has damaged their heat shield or parachute deployment system.  They could therefore either burn up in the Earth's atmosphere, skip off into space for eternity, or crash into the ocean at several hundred miles per hour.

Taking into consideration the absolutely staggering number of obstacles they were facing, the fact that these three men made it back to Earth alive is more than just a miracle.  It's an inspiring story of people working together to solve epic problems with dire deadlines, unselfishly, because the alternative, in the words of flight director Gene Krantz, "is not an option."

The "failed" lunar mission became one of the utmost triumphs of the human spirit in American history, and this film does a better-than-worthy job of portraying it.  Ron Howard's direction was a massive challenge... how he was not at the very least nominated for Best Director is befuddling.  In order to have a believable level of realism (creating a zero-gravity environment here on Earth), Howard utilized "the Vomit Comet", a plane which conducts flights that dive at such an angle that zero-G environments are simulated for about 90 seconds at a time (for example, think about those little hills you go over in your car that make your tummy jump for a moment, and make that moment last for a minute and a half.  Yipee!!!)  Watch the "Making of..." documentary on the DVD; it's all there.  Great extras!

I'm glad that this film doesn't forget the ordeals of the wives and families of the men on board; we live a great deal of their experiences through Marilyn Lovell and her children, and even through Jim's elderly mom, Blanch, who is played (I believe by Ron Howard's mother?), Jean Howard.  Although the phrase "Houston, we have a problem" has become the iconic phrase from this film, Blanch has in my opinion one of the best-delivered lines of hope and encouragement in movie history.  (I won't give it away... but you'll never look at a washing machine the same way again.)

I wish that Amazon had a little more lee-way in its rating system, because I'd like to give Apollo 13 4 1/2 stars.  The performances of Tom Hanks, Gary Sinise, Ed Harris, Kathleen Quinlan, Bill Paxton, and Kevin Bacon are excellent and compliment the director's efforts nicely.  If you are a lover of true-stories, fascinated by space travel, or a believer in what humans have the ability to do if they work together, then you will love Apollo 13.