Going into it, the less hype you hear, good or bad, the better. You hear all these things about "it" and when you actually watch "it" for the first time, all that profound analysis or whatever the kids are calling it nowadays can be not unlike a rowdy theater, full of a motely crew of chattering chatter boxes, all making their own shadow puppets on the screen and all in the discomfort of you're already crowded head device mark 12. This means this, that means that, this is wrong, thats right, Colonel Muster with the candle stick... aye yai yai, calgon take me away. Thankfully I saw this movie before I heard to much about it, or even Lynch himself for that matter (whom many seem to see as some kind of fly by night charlatan for some utterly creepy reason, I figure it's sexual jealousy). All I had was five bucks in my pocket, a blockbuster card, brutal loneliness and a heart full of napalm. It was like some bizzare friend I'd been waiting for without even knowing I was waiting, that was equally adept at making me laugh as making me cry, and in that, I am truly in debt to it in some zany, cooky kind of way. I can say without risk of hyperbole it was one of the most satisfying and powerful cinematic experiences I've had since I was a child (these results are not typical, no refunds.) It seems unfair that the only thing I can give back for that experience is mere praise (we'll try to work on that.)

If you have yet to watch it, stop reading all the reviews right now and see it for yourself. You may love it, you may hate it, you may have cheap sex with it and not call it the next day, but it's a swell enough movie to where those are largely the only choices you'll have, he said somewhat cautiously. True, there have been some wonderful and thought provoking things said about this film, in it's praise and in it's opposite, but they're not worth you're dime till you've seen it for you're self and have drawn you're own conclusions, and maybe not even then. For me, the film largely stops when the end credits run, and I don't need anybody telling me why I should like it or despise it, for I have seen the mountian, and it is good.

Many intellectual types (possibly qualified as hard nosed intellectual elitists, who, like red necks, despise what they can't understand.) can't stand Lynch because they have a hard time making heads or tails of his work, but oh the folly, if only they would sit back and allow themselves to feel the film, instead of trying to figure it out as if it is was as simple as some mathematical problem. They listen but they do not hear, eat but do not taste, shift but do no shimmy, etc. etc., blah, blah, blah. I don't care if it's all a gimmick or a bowl of broccoli, it's worth something to me.

In summary, I liked it very much, I'm glad it was made instead of not, and if you're cool, you'll like it too.

Viva La Blue Velvet and all it's mutant children.