Family relationships represent some of the most important relationships one creates in a lifetime.  These connections shape personalities, thoughts, and actions.  American History X depicts the life of one family involved with racism and how Derek's (Edward Norton) actions affect Danny's (Edward Furlong) life.  Although American History X examines other issues such as racism and hate crimes, the movie clearly intends to show the importance of sibling relationships.
 The prevalence of racism within the movie leads some critics to think that the theme somehow ties to racism.  Richard Corliss, a movie reviewer for Time, draws the conclusion that, "you've got to be taught to hate.  Derek's father makes racist remarks, so the liberal minded lad turns into a Neo-Nazi; then Derek sees his beliefs are wrong, so skinhead Danny does too" (100).  Certainly both Derek and Danny had some influence from their father (William Russ) regarding their racist feelings.  However, their mother (Beverly D'Angelo) remained neutral about her feelings toward races throughout the movie, and their sister (Jennifer Lien) clearly did not condone her brother's thoughts and actions.  Also, Mr. Sweeney (Avery Brooks) endlessly tried to make the brothers change their ways.  If one can learn to hate, why can one not also learn to accept?
 The entire movie depicts how Derek's life affected Danny's.  The fact that Derek greatly affected Danny's life is not so farfetched.  According to Erica Goode and Betsy Wagner, authors of the article, "The Secret World of Siblings" claim that, "Sibling relationships shape how people feel about themselves, how they understand and feel about others, even how much they achieve" (44).  Derek's only worry after leaving prison is how to get Danny away from this hate filled life.  Although he never got Danny away, he did succeed in changing Danny's views towards racism.  When the audience can determine that Derek helped to turn Danny racist and then can turn around and also say Derek helped Danny stop his racist ways, the movie really shows the strong bond between two brothers.
Another reason why the importance of sibling relationships represents the theme of American History X refers to the fact that we see most of the movie from Danny's standpoint.  Edward Norton was quoted in the Detroit Free Press as saying, "The flashbacks are quite clearly viewed through his little brother's eyes, and he has idealized him" (Lawson).  If Tony Kaye, director, had made this movie any different way, perhaps the fact that Derek helped to change Danny would not stand out as much.  But because the flashbacks take place in Danny's memory, the audience can see how much Derek means to him.
 One film reviewer, James Berardinelli, states, "American History X is in no way a comprehensive look at racism, hatred, or inner city violence.  Instead it examines the various ways these elements tear at the fabric of a family" (Berardinelli).  Berardinelli is right.  If screen writer David McKenna wanted to make a movie on racism, why would he incorporate a family?  The inclusion of a family plays an emotional angle.  When viewers finish watching this movie, they have sympathy for the family that lost a son.  They do not feel animosity towards Derek.  Derek tried to do everything possible to remove Danny from the environment.  If this movie meant to discuss racism, including the brother relationship and its impacts would be unnecessary.  
Director Tony Kaye makes picking out the theme of the movie difficult for the audience.  The overwhelming amount of hate and violence displayed within the movie begins to overshadow the importance of Danny and Derek's relationship.  However, as reported on the Hollywood Jesus website, screenwriter David McKenna said the following when speaking about the inspiration behind the script, "While American History X was made with a no-holds-barred look at the very real underbelly of racism, this is not a film about skinheads or white power. This is a searing contemporary tragedy that grips one working-class family" (Bruce).  This movie clearly intends to reveal the strength of a relationship between two brothers.
American History X takes a broad look at the issues surrounding a family stuck in the middle of racist thoughts.  The final presentation of the movie forces the audience to take a deeper look into Danny and Derek's relationship.  As long as Derek plays the hero type in the end, the audience forgets the racism aspect of the film.  American History X simply uses the aspect of racism in order to explore the bigger issue, the importance of sibling relationships.

Works Cited
Berardinelli, James. Film review, 1998. 5 April 2004 &lt;http://movie-reviews.colossus.net/movies/a/americanx.html.>
Bruce, David. "Racism in America = Hating Others." 1998. Hollywood Jesus. 8 April 2004 http://www.hollywoodjesus.com/american_history_x.htm.
Corliss, Richard. "Thug Chic." Time 2 Nov. 1998: 100.
Goode, Erica E., Wagner, Betsy. "The Secret World of Siblings." US News & World Report 10 Jan. 1994: 44-50.
Lawson, Terry. "Actor Stays Above the Fray Surrounding Skinhead Movie `American History X.'" Detroit Free Press 12 Nov. 1998.