superflykai gives an excellent review below and says exactly what I would have said, if I had only gotten here first.  So I won't try and top it.  
What I will say though is that this is probably my favorite film of all time.  You can tell that this was a real work of love.  The editing is unbelievable and is actually more of an art film than anything else.  Johnny Rottens naration just pulls you in. You see how intelligent he really is.  No censorship here.  There are virtually endless amounts of original scenes intercut in the most thoughtful way. Great interviews with Sid Vicious and silly scenes of him walking through the High Park in London with his swastika t-shirt and black leather jacket freaking everyone out.  Great live performance scenes and you see that Steve Jones plays guitar as good on stage as he did in the studio.  It's amazing to see how great they really were.  There are also some heartfelt moments where Johnny feels a geat sense of sorrow about not knowing how to help Sid and he holds back the tears as he remembers how the papers exploited Sid's death and made a joke out of it.  Too much material in this film to even begin to cover it. It's simply a great film and I highly recommend it to anyone with a mind.
If you care about rock and roll as a means of social consiousness or as a way of personal liberation from all the social stupidiy, or if you ever dared rebel against authority, then this is a film for you and about you.  I don't know any other band who did what the Sex Pistols did.  Everything else now seems boring to me.  
My only complaint is that the film left me wanting for more.  I've now seen all these great little clips of all these shows and all this chaos and I just want to see more of it.. I hope they release an updated version.  I would like to see the entire Sid and Nancy interviews on a bonus disc.  That would be great. I'd like to see more live shows complete from start to finish. The bonus materials on the disc aren't that great.  Not much really.  Only a couple of items..
I would also recommend Johnny Rottens autobiography, "Rotten: No Irish, No Blacks No Dogs" (title taken from a common sign which hung outside pubs in England in the 50's"