I saw this DVD at an event at my local health food store last week.  I could not believe what I was seeing.  Nor could any of the other 40 or so people who were also there viewing it.

This is an extremely well documented expose of the Monsanto company, how the people at this company are lying, misrepresenting, endangering our health and the health of everyone in the world - just to make a profit.  Talk about EVIL.  (This is the company that makes among other things "Round Up" Weed Killer - which kills all plants - unless they have been genetically modified to be resistant to Roundup.)

Farmers spray this stuff all over their crops, then we eat it.
And worse, the government is looking out for Monsanto's interests instead of the people's.  Don't just take my word for it.  See this video. Get it from your library if you can't afford to buy it.  Monsanto has been sued many times for false representation. (About how safe their products are)  Remember the additive they came up with to make cows produce more milk.  RBGH - Bovine Growth Hormone.  Monsanto lied about the results of the research, lied about it being safe for the cows and for human consumption, lied about all of it.  Did you know that in the research that was done, the cows that were injected with this had severe problems reproducing, and had severe problems with infected mammary glands (their breasts)(i.e. infected - and infection goes into the milk., etc).  The U.S. still sells lots of milk with this stuff in it - It was banned in Canada and other countries long ago...

Monsanto is also genetically engineering a lot of seeds, then putting a patent on them, then selling the seed to the farmers - the farmers are not allowed to keep any seed for themselves, and Monsanto regularly files suits against them if they even /think/ they are saving any seeds, or if a neighboring farmer "turns them in" and  they eventually cannot grow their own regular crops because everything has been invaded by Monsanto's engineered seeds.

The farmers also have to pay a royalty to Monsanto on all of their crops from seeds they purchased from Monsanto.  Cotton farmers in India are committing suicide in large numbers because they cannot afford to purchase seed from Monsanto. There are no "regular" cotton seeds to be found there anymore - just the genetically modified ones to be purchased from Monsanto. There are many, many interviews in the movie from people in governments, also regular people and farmers from all over the world - pictures of newspaper articles, google searches, etc to back this up - all done much better than I am explaining it here.

If you care about staying healthy, and your friends, family and loved ones staying healthy, you MUST see this DVD one way or another, and share it with everyone you know.  Then make sure you buy USDA ORGANIC as much as possible.

By the way, the movie is not dull or dry at all.  It is expertly done, and would do quite well in my opinion if it ended up in a Movie Theater.  Please see it.