You take two great actors, I mean GREAT ACTORS!, stick them within arms length in the cramped confines (you wonder what's scarier...the claustrophic atmosphere inside that sub, or the destroyer (AND THE UNKNOWN ENEMY HIDING NEATH THE WAVES!)
of an American submarine on patrol in the Western Pacific during WWII, add some terrific dialogue, some wonderful supporting actors, an absolutely engaging scenario of hunter and hunted, with a good dash of revenge added for good measure,
do it in black and white, THE RIGHT WAY!, and you get RUN SILENT, RUN DEEP!

I read the book when I was quite young, so many years ago - carried it around with me a lot because I loved the Navy and the exotic world of submariners, and the author, Capt. Edward L. Beach  , was a Navy veteran who knew the sea, its war heroes and victims, and submarines like the back of his....well, you know!

The drama in both venues, book and film, is phenomenally intense....and authentic!
Lancaster as the curt and suspicious first officer, very uneasy with his captain, played by the inimitable Clark Gable (in one of his greatest roles, and so many were great!) out to find that destroyer (so he thinks!) that sank his last sub!
Willing to drive his crew on board to distraction in drills designed to get the
one-upsmanship on the "Mo-Mo", while never thinking that another, even more dangerous and sinister "enemy below" (there was another fine movie by that name, by the way, starring Kurt Jurgens as a sub skipper and Robert Mitchum as a destroyer captain (you think that picture wasen't influenced by Run Silent, Run Deep?  THINK AGAIN!) just waiting to sink THEIR sub the way he did Gable's first one!

Drama and acting at its very best.  A blockbuster war film, if there ever was one!
Two great actors, one in his prime, and one (sadly!) in the last years of a glorious film-making career and their mutual animosities added to spice up the battle scenes (the ship-stalking scenes are even better!), and this is what you get!

What a great war movie this is - one that will never lose its place in the greatest-of-the-greats movie pantheon - and a reminder to us all that things are NEVER what they appear to be, whether in war, or in peace!

Buy it!  Watch it!  Watch it again, and again, and...................

YOU GET THE PICTURE!