GI Joe the Movie is kinda like Transformers the Movie was....you end up with mixed feelings about it.
Luckily, unlike Transformers, GI Joe the Movie doesn't kill off main characters.  Duke was originally killed, but they redubbed it to just have him badly hurt after the backlash from killing off Optimus Prime in the Transformers movie.
I dislike the plot, as this was the period of time that saw GI Joe start to abandon the military style plotlines and pick up on some really weird stuff.  Cobra-La is a total waste, and simply doesn't fit into the GI Joe series well at all.  I also totally hate how Cobra Commander turns out to be some sort of mutant under that mask, as I always liked the idea that he was just another faceless terrorist that could have been anyone.  I think GI Joe really screwed up here.
A lot of new characters are introduced, though, and many classic ones are shown frequently.  Just about every one created by this point appears somewhere in the film.
Interesting note:  GI Joe the Movie was originally slated for theatrical release, but never made it out.  It was released straight to video in 1987 and shown on TV as a mini series.
The quality of the picture and sound is excellent.
As for the special features, for once, Rhino gets it right.  25 of the original Public Service Announcements that aired at the end of the daily cartoon series are included.  Everyone remembers the "Now I know....and knowing is half the battle" line.  These are super cheesy, and hilarious to watch in rapid fire succession like this.  Worth the purchase just to see these, honestly.  
The special features also include movie trailers, though they are not for this movie, but rather for the mini-series that aired in 1984 and 1984 before the cartoon went into a regular daily series.  Still neat to see, though.  There are also toy commercials, but they are for the original toy from decades ago, and seem very, very out of place here.  They needed to include commercials for the generation of GI Joe toys that appear in the rest of the DVD.
Overall, the price is right for this one, and it's worth owning if you are a GI Joe fan.  Yeah, you have to put up with Cobra-La and Serpentor, but that's a small price to pay.