Story:
  On the way back to Earth from LV426 the Sulaco experiences a fire and the survivors from Aliens are dropped down to a prison planet in an escape pod.  The fire was cause by the spilt acid of a facehugger's blood although it is never explained how some alien eggs got aboard the ship in the first place, much less the cryo chamber where the crew was sleeping.
  When the escape pod crashes near the shore of the prison Hicks is impailed by a support beam, Newt awakens only to drown in her chamber, Bishop is further damaged and Ripley survives (hey, she's the star).  The pod is rescued by some of the prison's inhabitants while they were outside working with oxen.  Ripley is found alive and is taken to the infirmary but no one notices that the facehugger has hitched along for the ride in the escape pod.  The facehugger quickly attacks an ox and lays an embryo within.
  Ripley recovers and is curious to found out what happened.  As she figures out what occured another prisoner discovers a dead ox with its chest burst open and alongside the now dead facehugger (its huuuuge, bigger than the ones seen in previous films, its a different design which explains why the alien in this film looks somewhat different from, again, the ones in previous films).  Ripley tells everyone that there might be an alien around but of course no one believes her and the body count starts to rise.  After witnessing the alien the prisoners set a trap to entrap the alien by burning sections of the prison and luring it into a chamber.  Something of course goes wrong and many of the prisoners are killed in the fire but the plan works and the alien is finally trapped.  Unfortunately a psychotic prisoner frees the alien believing it is god and the body count continues.
  Ripley discovers she's now carrying an alien inside of her and tries to kill herself by letting the alien kill her but of course the alien wont do that since it senses that she's carrying a queen!  The Company is also on its way to the planet to capture the queen for themselves so times running out.
  After some more deaths the alien is finally killed but the Company gets there in time to capture Ripley and the queen.  Ripley not wanting the Company to capture the queen and use it as a weapon throws herself into a furnace and kills herself and the queen.
Movie :
  This movie was done to cash in on the sucess of Aliens, let me just make that clear.  The final script wasn't even complete until a few weeks before filming began (although by today's standards many directors would be thankful to at least have a few weeks!  Jurassic Park 3's script wasn't completed until the last week of shooting)!  Alien 3 was rushed into production.  This explains why the movie is nowhere near as good as Fincher's other films, Se7en, The Game, Fight Club, The Panic Room.
  During production the crew ran into a problem, oxen don't do anything!  The oxen wouldn't do what was called for in the script and at the last minute they replaced the ox and reshot using a dog!  Many people mistakenly believe that the reason the alien looks different is because it came out of a dog, this is not true since the dog wasn't added into the movie till the very last minute.
  The editing process was also hurried and many of the scenes were left on the cutting room floor which makes the final movie feel rushed and chopped up.  In fact, if you ever get to watch the trailer for this movie you'll notice that 85% of it isn't in the movie!  Some scenes cut out were all the scenes with the oxen, scenes where the alien is first trapped and released, scenes with the huge facehugger and more scenes with a lot of character development.  If you look around you'll find pictures and avi's of some of these scenes on different websites.
The movie itself looks great and has great performances unfortunately it feels incomplete and badly edited and thats only because it is.  It would be nice if Fincher and Fox could reteam and complete this movie and release it as a Special Edition DVD.  Hey, write in folks and let them know that there is a demand to see this happen!