It is perhaps time to address a few of the criticisms levelled at "Gerry."

1.  Nothing Happens.

In fact, there is an incredible richness of action.  No, I'm not kidding.  Every detail, from dialogue, landscape and sound to editing, music and even the opening blue screen is there to help the viewer immerse him/herself in the film.  The first line of the movie is "Gerry, the path" which one character says to another, foreshadowing everything that is to follow.  The way the characters are composed in the frame to viscerally demonstrate the futility of their march by having the horizon simply not move at all.  The long tracking shots, much maligned by many critics as being far too long and without meaning are packed with incident if you are engaged.  Which brings me to criticism number 2.

2.  There is no point to the movie.

That all depends on your point of view of course.  But I was utterly sucked in from the beginning.  The metaphor of two men wandering futilely in an indifferent landscape is to a die-hard existentialist what a pint of Guiness is to a parched Irishman.  As I watched the two nameless characters (they're not both called Gerry-more on that later) wander, I yearned to join them, for the wanderings of most mortals is not as beautiful as theirs seemed to be, in spite of its tragic end.  So what is the point?  That we are all wandering around, and all we have to hang on to is each other.  Or maybe it's that we live in an uncaring universe and we must hold fast to the boyscout's motto "Be Prepared."  Or maybe it's as another reviewer on IMDb said, sometimes we're rock marooned and need a friend to build us a dirt matress.  I don't know, but I know that every time I watch the film (and I am compelled to keep watching it), I find more to think about.  (I don't wish to preach, but maybe it's simply a matter of rethinking what you expect from a movie.  This movie doesn't spoonfeed, but I'm hardpressed to think of another movie that rewards a vigorously engaged viewer.  Maybe...Vertigo?"

3.  The Acting stinks.

Matt Damon's character wears new khakis because he is a callow young man who thinks it would be cool to go for a hike with his pal.  They talk about Wheel of Fortune and conquering Thebes to stave off the terror of being lost, in the dark with zero prospects of help, and no ability to help themselves.  Ditto the "mannered" phrases like "Mountain-top Scout-about" and "rock-marooned" and "these animal tracks lead either to water or the mating ground."  They are either trying to keep up the macho image of a man in touch with his environment, or else they are trying to keep the other from panicking or both.  It is probably also worth noting, that their incompetence is made obvious right from the start.  And Matt Damon's character's description of Wheel of Fortune's rules isn't even right.  In other words, he doesn't even know the rules of the game.  Although the dialogue is said to be improvised, I would argue that it was probably quite well-outlined before production began, because everything that either Matt Damon or Casey Affleck say comments directly on the heart of the matter, even things as mundane as "I almost succumbed, but I turbanned up and I feel better now."

4.  Both characters are named Gerry.

A small point, but one that baffles me.  I don't think that either of the characters is named Gerry.  Based on its usage throughout the film, a "Gerry" would seem to be a wrong move, a blunder or an idiot.  It's simply a slang term they both use.  They call each other Gerry when the other has done something foolish, like lose his way, or mistaken the rendez-vous point. Otherwise, they call each other "dude."

5.  It is impossible to care about the characters.

As you can see, I've given the characters a bit of back-story.  I may be wrong in my assumptions.  I probably don't see them the way the authors (Affleck, Damon and van Sant) did.  However, I believe that the characters are specifically designed to be "everyboys" that any young man can identify with.  They are universal archetypes.  I feel for them, because I can easily see myself in the same situation.  Perhaps not literally, but metaphorically in any case.

6.  The characters are stupid.

It is true that it is hard to imagine anyone getting so hopelessly lost in so short a time.  Look at your tracks and follow them back to the car.  It's a sandy trail after all.  However, the whole point is that these characters are out of their element.  The fact that vegetation disappears should clue them in to the possibility that they are going the wrong way, that they "Gerried."  That they don't doesn't mean that they're stupid or that the film is stupid or that we should feel stupid if none of this bothers us.  It means that the two protagonists, like us a lot of the time, are in over their heads.

This is a movie that rewards patience, attention and care of viewing.  Repeated viewings are probably a must.  This may be a form of torture to some.  But for those of you who were infuriated, frustrated or bored by the movie while you were watching it, but couldn't get it out of your heads after the fact, give it another chance.