Reading the title, you might assume this movie will be a warning against trying to buy someone's love, but it's not.  When Ronald Miller (Patrick Demsey) pays Cyndi Mancini (Amanda Peterson), the most popular girl in high school, a thousand dollars to date him for one month, he's not trying to buy her love.  He's trying to buy her popularity.
And he succeeds.

However, popularity isn't as glamorous as Ronald expected it to be.  He learns from Cyndi that being popular can feel like a job sometimes.  Even Cyndi Mancini, the most popular girl in school, still has to work at being popular or even she, too, can be cast out.  But despite Cyndi's warnings to Ronald not to lose his authentic self trying to impress this crowd, Ronald nevertheless does...and ends up betraying a good friend in the process.

The acting in this movie is pretty good.  Demsey and Peterson both give convincing performances, but I was also impressed by the actor who played Ronald's best friend (the redhead from "Children of the Corn").  The confrontation scene in the arcade was pretty explosive.
I also enjoyed Seth Green's performance as Ronald's annoying younger brother Chucky.  Chucky is a pest who enjoys being a pest.  The funniest scene in the movie is when Chucky asks Ronald -- right in front of their parents -- where Ronald's report card is...knowing full well that Ronald flunked all his classes.

The scene that didn't work for me, though, was the scene where Ronald confronts the stereotypical jock bully and gives him and the whole class a moving sermon that enlightens them all.  In this scene, the bully patiently listens to Ronald's sermon, but in reality, a bully would've probably either punched Ronald in the mouth or walked away before Ronald could finish.
Another problem with this movie is when Cyndi rages against the popular crowd and yet, not only does she return back to them, but she's also accepted back by them, too.

Overall, though, this is a good movie that's not really about buying love, but rather about selling your soul to become popular.