Watching this film after a while (I bought it in 2000) I appreciate it more and more.  How simple it could have been do just cast the mother of the Lisbon girls as cruel and insane, to have it be an update of Carrie, sans the prom mayhem.  Instead we get a unique portrait of a disturbed but basically decent family who simply could not cope.  The real main characters are, of course, the boys.  They are obsessed with the girls across the street and who can blame them?  Five stunning blond goddesses, ages 13 through 17, all devastatingly beautiful, Kirsten Dunst is as lovely as ever, she is always pretty but this film really takes advantage of the ethereal, dreamlike quality of her, throwing her hair around in slow motion and winking at the camera. It would look stupid on any other actress. It is also a perfect homage to the shampoo ads of the 1970's, not a parody but a respectful nod.  Basically we have a dysfunctional family without a clear villain.  The mother simply will not allow her daughters to grow up or to leave the house accept for school. The father (Played brilliantly by James Wood) is a dishrag. plain and simple, he won't stand up to his wife and just goes along with things, he is also seriously detached from reality.  When his youngest daughter kills herself he watches a ballgame when the priest comes to comfort him, he never acknowledges what happened. This sounds very cruel and indeed it would be, but the girls have never known another life and so they endure it and rebel in there own ways.  Lux ( Dunst) is a sexual dynamo and throws herself at boys and men alike, the trash man etc.  She uses her beauty as a weapon, her only weapon perhaps, but an effective one.  The youngest is the first to die, she kills herself in a deeply disturbing manor that would be much too gruesome in the hands of a lesser director, Sofia Coppala is as good as everyone says, I don't know if her father had his hand in this or not but whoever did this did it very well.  Watching this film reminded me of real people, the pretty girls in the 70's who had less then no time for me but whom I would watch, form a safe distance of course! Girls that were never seen accept at school or church but who grew up anyway, for better or worse.  The suicides are not realistic but that is part of the overall feel of the film, the boys watch as we watch, from the theater seats (or living room chair) not understanding the strange creatures we call girls.  The mystery of the Lisbon girls untimely deaths is, I think, the mystery that cannot be solved and the deaths represent the end of obsession, of seeing the opposite sex as visions through a telescope (or a movie screen), of course they never get over it, even as grown ups whenever they met, they tried to put together the evidence to figure out why, they won't and neither will we.  The Virgin Suicides is about life's mysteries and how we never solve them and we never should.