For those who watched the spectacular Ip Man, the first movie, this is going to be a great disappointment.  From the beginning to the end of the movie it cannot compete with the first one.  This movie was miserably directed and I feel for Donnie Yen who had to read the script and act accordingly.

The Character of Ip Man is made too weak as well as Sammo Hung who plays his adversary for most of the movie but then suddenly he gives Ip Man tickets to a boxing match one day and just like that they become fast friends--yeah right.  Unbelievable and it shows just how much respect the director has for the intelligence of the audience...absolutely none.

Ip Man first opens a martial arts studio on a roof of a business building and a whose-school-is-best fight breaks out between Ip Man's students and Sammo Hungs shortly thereafter.  Ip Man gets evicted from the place where he was teaching because of it and ends up teaching inside his own apartment.

In the first movie Ip Man fights the second best and beats him.  Then, a rogue tough guy martial artist comes into town and fights every single martial arts master in Ip Man's town and beats them all.  Finally, he learns of Ip Man and challenges him.  Ip Man readily hands him his backside in a hand basket.  I don't think he ever touches Ip Man in that awesome indoor fight.

Now, we go back to Ip Man 2.  The same rogue is in the movie and it's as if they castrated him, gave him a new hair style and took away all the toughness he had in the first one and becomes Ip Man's friend.  Becoming Ip Man's friend was great but giving him the new girly look was not.  Near the end of the movie Ip Man does something which is very unprofessional--he begins bragging about how he beat up the rogue who had helped him so much in this movie and had become his friend.  You don't talk bad about your friends--you just don't.

In Ip Man 2 there's a fight in the market where he and his best student fight off an army of Sammo Hung's students and friends--I'm talking about a massive amount of people.  That's where the rogue comes to the rescue, when things are just beginning to look hopeless.

Now, at this boxing match the true villain of the film is an English boxer--a real tough customer.  He insults the Chinese fighting style so Sammo Hung gets in there and gets killed by this boxer--who the hell is going to believe that after the fight he had with Ip Man which was deemed a stalemate.  No boxer, regardless of his skill, should have even been able to touch Sammo Hung if he's as good as Ip Man.  It defies reason.

Yep, you guessed it, Ip Man gets angry and picks up the gauntlet.  The fight between the boxer and Ip Man is the biggest most ludicrous fight I have ever seen based on what happened in the first film where Ip Man beat the intestinal fortitude out of 10 Japanese black belts simultaneously (without being touched).  Later he beat the Ultimate Japanese fighter in one of the best fight sequences on film.

He does all this in the first film, fights an army at the market in the Ip Man 2 and yet he can barely beat a single boxer with muscles.  Shameful!

I can't emphasize just how bogus, unrealistic and stupid this movie was.  Poor Grand Master Ip Man is probably turning in his grave.

Perhaps if it would have been directed by Sylvester Stallone, it may have been better--but I doubt it.  When any caliber of boxer meets a true Grand Master of Wing Chun--the boxer doesn't have a chance--period.

At best the movie was an abysmal disappointment.  Do yourself, your family, and friends a favor and just watch the first film of Ip Man and bypass Ip Man 2; you'll be glad you did.