Persepolis was originally a comic by Marijane Satrapi, an Iranian cartoonist. The comic was later made into an animation. The movie portrayed the main character, Marji, and her experiences in Iran beginning as a child. It focused mostly on her growth as a person and how she became exposed to different things through politics, life experiences, and religion. The greatest religion aspect in this animation was when there were changes in power in the government. One leader would demand citizens of Iran wear veils while another would try to banish it. Events such as these caused a lot of confusion in Marji's mind, especially during her childhood. However, Marji's family was far less conservative than many other families in Iran. Therefore, they often broke many of the rules set by the religious leaders of that time. For example, they would often have parties even though they were illegal. Also, Marji, her mother, and her grandma never wore veils at home because their views were more open and liberal. Veils were a method to distinguish your religious view but it was also a way for men to look down upon women. There was a scene in the animation when a woman who knew Marji's family came over. She entered the house without wearing a veil but once she saw Marji's dad, she immediately put it on. Due to the fact that Marji's family possesses more liberal views, he told her there was no need to put on the veil. Satrapi's view on religion is very different from others as can be seen in the way she indirectly criticizes it in the film.

This movie was very interesting because it gave me a new point of view in religion. I have a never been a religious person but I always thought that for people who were religious, religion was a good thing. However, after watching Persepolis and being exposed to Satrapi's outlook on religion, it occurred to me that in a lot of ways, religion was being abused by followers. People were doing things in God's name and taking his words far too literally. Also, as was evident in the animation, people often blindly followed religion. They did things because there were leaders who told them to do so and threatened them if they didn't follow their rules. There was a scene in the animation where Marji's grandpa needed to get a visa granted by the chancellor of the hospital. When Marji's grandma approached him, she recognized him as her previous window cleaner. She later realized that he was put in charge of this hospital because he claimed to be a devout Muslim. As can be seen in this scene, Satrapi criticizes the way people of Iran follow religion.