Obviously the prospect of releasing additional seasons of Knot's on DVD has stalled as the sales of Season 1 have not been what Warner Brothers had hoped for. But it doesn't take a rocket scientist to tell you that only having Season 1 available IS the reason the DVDs aren't selling. So Warners, get the clue, and get shaking. We want our Knot's!

Come on Warner's, this should be so easy to understand. Even when Knot's was new the show had a major redirect after the first year. But after that Knot's was on a steady ascent, getting better and better each year.

Although some folks like myself consider Knot's their favorite show of all times and will want to own every single episode, understandably many people are going to prefer to join in progress after the pace of the series picks up... in other words with Season 2, when Donna Mills joins the cast and everything suddenly clicks.

Exciting yet totally believable storylines and an amazingly talented group of actors meant there was never a dull moment. Michelle Lee's acting was so powerful that Karen Fairgate MacKenzie seemed like a real person to most of us who faithfully followed the show. And on top of the already strong core cast a steady diet of fantastic new additions (including of course the addition of Nicolette Sheridan near the end of Season 7) always kept things fun.

What it all boils down to is that a show doesn't stay on the air for 14 seasons by accident and without having and not have a loyal, no, make that fanatical following. To this day I remember how depressed I felt when the show went off the air. Thursday night has never seemed the same since.

So get busy Warner's because we want our Knot's. Judging this series to be a poor seller based on how Season 1 is doing is insane. If you bring out Season 2 and follow in short time with Season 3 so everyone knows you mean business and aren't going to stop, these DVDs will sell as fast as you can ship them. I'm standing by with my credit card in hand, waiting for you guys to snap out of it.

Fellow Knot's fans, am I right or am I right?