The easiest is at the Trailer section on the 2nd DVD. If you look at the posters behind the 3 Abyss ones, you will see that there is movie posters for Aliens, True Lies, and Strange Days. You can access them as follows. 
When your cursor is on the Reviews Trailer item push UP and you will get to an Aliens item that shows a trailer. 
When your cursor is on the Main Trailer item push DOWN and you will get to a True Lies item that shows a trailer. 
From the True Lies item push RIGHT and you will get to the Strange Days trailer 
Go to the The Abyss In-Depth - Mission Components section. At the next menu push UP until you get to the The Wave item and push UP one more time. There is a Harrier in the sky that you can select and it takes you to another True Lies trailer. 
O.K. Last one, go to the Image Gallery Menu section and move all the way over to the right until you are on the Still Image Gallery and push DOWN. Your cursor will move to an item on the wall at the top of the screen and you will see some text on the monitor that references Strange Days. Select this item and you will go to another Strange Days trailer
--- 
First go to the 2nd DVD disk, select the Personnel Lockers and go to the last page of items. There you will see an item appear at the upper right corner of your screen. To get to this item, put your cursor on the Building "Deepcore" and push RIGHT. Select the item to see the Aliens trailer. 
Select the Imaging Station and go to the VCR Tape labeled "Pseudopod Multi Angle". Push LEFT and you should go to an item on the far left of the screen. Select this to see yet another Aliens trailer
--- 
There is in fact not one but two Strange Days trailers, the first which can be accessed on the trailers menu behind the posters, but the second can be found also on the second disc. 
To access this second trailer which is actually a teaser, go into the imgaging station, once the screen loads, highlight the clipboard on the desk, which is on the right hand side of the screen, once highlighted press the down button. In doing so you will be taken back to the tyop of the screen were above the videos stacked there is a mini-disc player that should be now highlighted, select that and you an view the teaser. 
You cannot access this trailer by scrolling up into it, you have to press down on the clipboard.
--- 
On disc 2. Go to main menu, go to audio options, highlight alien face hugger on top of speaker for an Aliens trailer.
Disc 2: Go to main menu. Go to subtitle options, highlight face hugger hiding behind table for another Aliens trailer.
Disc 2: Go to documentaries, highlight "under pressure: the making of the abyss", press left to highlight the chapter list, scroll down until you reach chapter 18, an alien face hugger appears on a pipe at top of screen, press left to highlight face hugger for another Aliens trailer.
All in all there are 6 Aliens trailers, 2 True Lies trailers, and 2 Strange Days trailers.
Enjoy.