ALEXANDER Payne, the clear-sighted director of "Election" and "About Schmidt," always treats his characters' flaws with compassion, and his latest keenly observed comedy is the most humanistic yet. With "Sideways," he has crafted a sublime variation on the buddy road movie, infusing the midlife crises of the two main protagonists with hope and poetry.

Out in sun-soaked California wine country, this mellow character study features four of the most fully realized personalities seen on-screen this year, each brought to life by a top-notch performance. Payne and his longtime writing partner Jim Taylor have sculpted a near-flawless screenplay, awash with poignant observations and subtle humor, and studded with hilarious moments of high farce. Paul Giamatti, the busy character actor who broke out of the perennial-sidekick ghetto with last year's "American Splendor," gives a career-defining performance as Miles, a middle-school English teacher, failed novelist and often amusingly affected wine connoisseur ("[It has] a flutter of, like, a nutty Edam cheese.") Giamatti's hangdog looks have never been used to such great effect.

Miles, still sulking and pining two years after his divorce ("She had the best palate of any woman I've known"), can look achingly forlorn, but he is also capable of exploding into funny-but-sad fits of passionate rage. He is paired in this odd-couple road movie with his old college buddy Jack (the ruggedly handsome Thomas Haden Church, of the 1990s TV series "Wings"). Jack is a washed-up TV actor and a certified horndog, about to marry into a wealthy Armenian family. Miles decides to take the groom-to-be to the beautiful Santa Ynez Valley on a weeklong tour of the vineyards, golf courses and taverns as a kind of two-man, last-hurrah bachelor party. The two fortysomethings are operating at cross purposes - Miles, a devotee of pinot noir, is excited about treating his palate to some fine wine, while Jack, a dedicated party boy who talks in California dude-speak, can barely tell a red from a white. His objective is twofold: to have as many flings as possible before his wedding, and to hook Miles up with a woman to lift him out of his funk.

Enter two beautiful, strong, together female characters - a rare treat for grown-up moviegoers. Stephanie (Sandra Oh), a sexy, motorbike-riding wine pourer, immediately catches Jack's eye, and he woos her full-tilt without letting on about his impending wedding. As Jack and Stephanie indulge in a series of enthusiastic romps, Miles shyly tries to make time with Stephanie's friend Maya (a wonderful Virginia Madsen), a waitress at his favorite restaurant who shares his passion for wine. The hesitant courtship dance between Miles and Maya is lovely, and one of the most realistic ever committed to film.

Whether it's Maya delivering a breathtakingly seductive soliloquy about wine as "a living thing" or Miles waxing lyrical about the properties of the pinot grape, each line of dialogue has a dual meaning that cleverly reveals something about the speaker. It's a joy to watch comedy unfold so naturally, the laughs gently teased out from our growing knowledge of the characters, their imperfections, doubts and, yes, emotional pain.