I never write reviews. I am always so busy, being a workaholic, that to spend time on such a frivolous endeavor is anathema to me.

However, this product was such, due to it being reputedly broken at the gate due to censoring of the episode 201, that I felt compelled to spend the precious time to put forth my opinion for those who are considering making this purchase. This is largely because I view Matt Stone and Trey Parker as two of our most valuable satirists...or as satirists were once known, jesters.

You will no doubt have heard by now that the episode of 201 is still in the same format as it was  broadcast, bleeps and all. (The bleeps, for those who might not know, were ostensibly due to a veiled threat by a homegrown wannabe Muslim cleric. He was quoted as saying that South Park might want to lay off the Muslim humor if it's creators didn't want to suffer the same fate as Theo Van Gogh, who was killed by Muslim fanatics....y'know, just a friendly word of advice between friends) He looked and acted a lot like Cartman in the news interview of him that I saw...hmmmm...

 A pre-viewing blurb on this DVD insists that Matt and Trey did not do this bleeping of the dialogue as a huge meta-joke, that it was all Comedy Central's doing. Hmmm...perhaps, rabbit, perhaps.

If so, Comedy Central is the biggest bunch of hypocritical, gutless, cowardly a-holes you will ever see being hypocritical, gutless, cowardly a-holes in such a transparent fashion.

How do I reach this conclusion? I'll tell you.

There was a gag on the Jon Stewart Show recently that garnered a bit of notoriety for offending Catholics, mainly, and all Christians, generally. Great! All for it! I am, after all, a South Park fan. I believe that all of the emperors that have ever existed have no clothes and after all, we are all the emperor when it comes right down to it and a dose of reality/humility is good for each and every one of us.

Of course, not everyone agrees...possibly most don't...

The main reason many folks get so offended by what the jester says is that he's not a "yes man" and tells you straight up what everyone else can can plainly see about us that we pretend they cannot. Jesters exist for good reason. Religious, political, etc. fanatics are not offended by the jesters comments because they love God or conservatism/liberalism so much, they get offended purely because the satirist dares mock the choices that they, the believers, have made.

It goes without saying that this holds true for secular, atheist, and political (yes, I know, I've already said it twice...yadda, yadda, yadda) believers as well. None of us are pure.

However...

Comedy Central was asked by what could easily be determined to be at least the equivalent spokesperson for the Catholics as the self-proclaimed spokesperson for the Muslims who made the  comment resulting in all the bleeping and outright ban from the SP website of not just episode 201, but episode 200 as well, for an apology. An apology is all that was aked...no threats of violence, nothing like that.

If my sources are correct, they apparently refused, claiming that they did not give in to religious demands. Good for them, I say...Hell no we won't exclude certain people from ridicule..

but....my DVD is still bleeped....

As Kyle might say, "Really??"

So it becomes evident that my above statement that Comedy Central is made up of hypocritical, yadda, yadda yadda...must be true.

if...

All of the above information is also true.

If the above information is not true, however, then it really must be all just a meta-joke by the same two guys that that least once in the past, by their own admission, aired shows that were not what the viewers had been conditioned to expect or want. Not Without My Anus, anyone? Very Andy Kaufmanesque.

They claim it just isn't so that they were actually the ones who bleeped episode 201, but have been known to lie to us in the past for the sake of the joke.

So....

As Kyle might say, "Really??"

That said, this product is great! The bleeping actually does work very well as a meta-joke...hmm...suspicious, that...so purchase without fear dear consumer...you will not be disappointed. Each episode is every bit as great as those that preceded it. No jumping of the shark here. The homeless, maybe, but not sharks.