This film is actually much more enjoyable then one might think, and it was unfairly bashed by critics.

Katherine Heigl once again shows that she can carry the weight of a leading headliner in a major studio film. It follows the story of a girl who is in love with being in love and the procession of a wedding. It maybe because she lost her mother at a young age, or it maybe because she is in love with her boss, who dependant on her in the work place but not aware of her in matters of the heart.

James Marsden is a skeptical struggling news reporter who is tired of covering the wedding section of a major newspaper chain. He secretly scoffs at the ridiculous measures that women will go to have "the perfect wedding", even though his articles are the stuff that describes marital bliss as being touched by Heaven. He bumps into Katherine Heigls character at a wedding and is amused by her serious undertaking of being the "perfect" bridesmaid. At the same time he become unknowningly smitten with her, he decides to base an article that sheds light on how ridiculous some women become with their desire for "fairy tale love and marriage".

Enter Katherin Heigl's sister who is coming to visit, and is immediately attracted to Hiegl's boss who is too aware of the opulent attractive sister. Hiegl is heartbroken and miffed and the stage is set for the film which touches the heart and tickles the funny bone.

This is a quintessential film for those who love FOUR WEDDINGS AND A FUNERAL, THE WEDDING PLANNER, RUNAWAY BRIDE, MY BEST FRIEND'S WEDDING and other romantic comedies.

There are some truly hilarious moments and some tender poignant scenes as well. The viewer finds himself or herself, whatever the case maybe, cheering on Heigl to achieve her heart's desire throughout the obstacles of the film. Hiegl truly shows in this film that she indeed has star power rivaling Reese Witherspoon and Julia Roberts for the romantic comedy genre.

This is not just a chick flick, men should take note as well and will probably enjoy it as well, even though it might be a guilty pleasure for them. Buy this film and add it to your collection.

HERE COMES THE BRIDE AND HERE COMES THE DRESSES AND THE LAUGHTER. ENJOY!!!