Edward Norton gives an extraordinarily brilliant (and Oscar nominated) performance as Derek Vinyard, a neo-nazi skinhead in this explosive and powerful drama about two brothers caught up in a cycle of racial hatred and violence. Told through the eyes of Derek's younger brother Danny, superbly portrayed by Edward Furlong, this is the story of a family torn apart after the loss of their firefighter father, killed whilst working in a black neighbourhood. As a result, the highly intelligent Derek (Norton), already influenced by his late father's bigotry and manipulated by cowardly fascist Cameron Alexander (Stacy Keach) becomes the charismatic leader of a local gang of skinheads. This inevitably leads to friction within Derek's family and his imprisonment for the murder of two black youths. Whilst in prison hero-worshipping Danny (Furlong) seeks to emulate his older brother and becomes more and more involved with the white power movement and influenced by Cameron (Keach) and his mindless morons. However, with a hero's welcome being planned for Derek's release from prison, he returns to his neighbourhood a changed man and sets out to repair the damage he's done to his family and to persuade his brother not to travel the same road.
Brilliantly written by David Mc.Kenna and with top-notch performances from both its male leads (ably supported by Avery Brooks and Stacy Keach) American History X is an intelligent and powerful examination of the causes and existence of racial bigotry and hatred. It does not seek to sensationalise rascism or violence but neither does it duck the issues. Controversial because of its frank portrayal of rascists as human beings, the scariest part of watching American History X is how credible and believable Edward Norton's rascists arguments (as the charismatic leader Derek Vinyard) can be and how easy it must be for impressionable youth to be drawn into a world of hatred and violence. This is as much education as entertainment and essential viewing for fans of intelligent drama. Described by the critics as "magnificent", "extraordinary" and "outstanding" American History X genuinely is a must see movie and a must own DVD.