I know that some people may say that a movie based on the life of an "idiot" is of little interest to people and does not deserve someone's time.  Well, Forrest Gump has done nothing but shut those people up.  Tom Hanks stars as a slow-witted Southerner named Forrest Gump.  The film shows about 30 years of his life and our nation's life.  Forrest always manages to be around when something big is going on in America whether it be Vietnam or the Watergate Scandal.
Forrest starts out as child living with his single mother(Sally Field) in the South.  Forrest's only friend besides his mother is a young girl named Jenny who turns out to be the love of Forrest's life.  Early in life Forrest needs leg braces for his crooked legs which starts up the comedy in the film.  He then grows up to play football and turns out to be an All-American.  He then joins the army and meets his best friend and shrimp fanatic Bubba.  They go to Vietnam together where Forrest is struck with his first of many hard blows.  He also meets his future friend Lt. Dan(Gary Sinsie) in Vietnam.  While in the war Forrest is shot in the "buttox" and is hospitalized.  It is in the hospital that Forrest realizes he is exceptionally skilled in the sport if ping-pong.  After the war Forrest joins the national Ping-Pong team.  Forrest then buys a shrimping boat and begins working alone.  He is later joined by war vet/friend Lt. Dan.  The two end up getting rich off of the business.  Forrest then returns home where his mother is sick and decides to mow lawns.  Jenny later revisits Forrest  and the two live together for a while.  She later leaves him and this is when Forrest begins his 3-year long jogging spree back and fourth across the country.  After his run Forrest gets a letter from Jenny and decides to visit her.  He then learns that Jenny has had his son.  I won't tell you the rest, you'll just have to buy it and watch it for yourself.
Forrest Gump is a heart-moving, and humourous movie that the whole family can watch.  I would highly recommend buying the DVD version instead of the VHS version since with the DVD version you get two disks, one containing the movie and the other containing a handful of great extras.  Which ever you decide, you will still be buying one of the best films of the 19th century!