A long time ago, in a world far far away, I saw this extremely simple film called "My Dinner With Andre."  That feature-length movie consisted of about 95 percent just two men talking, at a dinner table.  I recently saw this again on cable, at least a couple of decades since I had seen it last, and it was just as good as I had remembered it.  Maybe even better.  I was enchanted enough with it, then and today, that it came up repeatedly in an hours long discussion about "everything" (including films that we loved), I had with my brother (who had seen it) and my nephew (who had not) during the recent holidaze.  I even purchased and sent the DVD to my bro, since he, like me, hadn't seen it for so long, but had fond memories of it.

I remember my brother and me trying to explain to my nephew how great the film was, because it was so simple, two people in a conversation, and yet it was so good BECAUSE it was so minimalist and basic.  I never really thought I would have seen such a similar and equally great film, until I caught the Sunset Limited, on HBO, and like "Andre," this has become in short time, one of my favorite "Hollywood/Studio" produced films of all time.  It is nothing short of brilliant.  But a caveat that spoilers lay ahead...

This work, about an hour and a half long, is all about two aging men, one black, one white (and they are labeled as such in the credits), simply talking, about many things, but mainly about belief and resulting hope, and knowledge and resulting suicidal depression.  There is little introduction to the proceedings except to make it clear that one day (night in fact), his "birthday" in point of fact, a white man (Tommy Lee Jones), decided to kill himself by jumping in front of a Harlem subway train, but was pulled from eternal death by another man, black (Samuel L. Jackson), although racial issues are only a side diversion here.  More to the essence, seems there was this highly educated but totally depressed and hopeless college professor who tried to end it all, but was "saved" in real life, at the last moment, by an ex-con, street-wise man roughly his own age, who was and is, unlike the man he saved, a Bible-believing "christian."  One who considered the suicidal man his brother, and saw as his divine duty that of somehow talking his new friend out of killing himself, if even temporarily.

Now, while all of that might not make much sense at first, the genius of this film is that this whole concept is detailed and elaborated upon throughout in a constantly interesting manner, and it doesn't take that long to get things rolling.  Some movies grab you from the beginning, either greatly or even lukewarm, but most always seem these days to make some rather simple but powerful concepts, just unclear enough for awhile to leave the viewer hanging on, until the whole thing makes some sort of enjoyable or at least understandable sense.  Same here in a way, but not really.  Within less than ten minutes, you're either going to love this and look forward to every following scene and word, or not.  It is the former with this, for me at least.  I was hooked strongly early on, and I suspect most viewers will be or have already been as well.

Tommy Lee Jones and Samuel L. Jackson turn in almost perfect performances.  Jones, who is the athiest/agnostic, and just simply tires of life and wishes for nothing more than eternal, peaceful nothingness and darkness and an escape from his lifelong pains, plays it all with subtle yet convincing and obvious depression.  Jackson, more world-wise, and more seemingly "happy" than the man he rescued from certain death, lives in his own kind of hell (his real environment and surroundings) and his transformation till the end into something a little bit different, is as convincing and compelling as is his denial of said fact from the start.

There are so many philosophical, religious, and real-life ideas thrown about, almost in every single line of this play turned into a film, that I think I would do more harm than good in going into much more detail than I have already.  And I am limited by space and word count here anyway.  Needless to say, this is a simple film which makes the enlightened viewer, whether they agree more with the suicidal professor or the bible thumping savior, question many, many ideas, beliefs, and convictions, and the whole thing is detailed throughout with some very powerful background sounds, musical phrases, and atmospheric touches throughout, which only add to how really great this production is.

I was raised a strict Catholic until the age of reason (in my case about age 12 or 13), identify much stronger with Jones' character and beliefs than that of Jackson's, and I've actually never really looked back despite my own similar periods of suicidal despair, doubts and reaching out for any glimmer of hope.  Although the beauty of this particular movie is that it gives almost equal and convincing respect to both belief systems (and everything in between), and ways of coping with (and/or ending) this difficult little thing called "living."

The end is quite existential, even if one doesn't really understand what that means exactly.  And while coming to the finish, I was convinced it was all going to turn out one way or another, it didn't.  And only led to further thought and reflection, and repeated viewings.  If you can get into this, and I pity the fool who can't, this is a brilliant example of a simple parable about life and death, and all things relative to both, translated with tons of modern day sights and sounds, and I recommend everybody experience it at least once.  At the very least, this proves that it doesn't take big budgets or special production effects to produce for and convey to the potential viewer, something at the same time, very down to earth, and very "divine."