Apart from listening to the supremely annoying voice of Brenda Blethyn this film is perfect. It is not overdrawn, overlong, or too far out of the realm of reality. The story is unusual, the script is well written, the cast is very down to earth seeming (which is something special about British films. Real people seem to populate the cast rather than out of this world beauties). Blethyn is excellent in her role as a beleaguered single mother, rather ditzy,...and not overly bright. She struggles to make ends meet and to take care of her daughter, who is also not the most pleasant person to get along with. A second storyline focuses on Blethyn&#8217;s character&#8217;s brother, Maurice, who is a photographer. He is heartbroken because he and his wife have done everything in the world to try to have children but cannot. They are the only other two people in the world, besides Blethyn, who know that Blethyn once gave birth to a child (when she was barely a teen herself) which she gave up for adoption. One day a woman named Hortense phones Blethyn and tells her that she is the daughter Blethyn once gave up for adoption. Blethyn is horrified, and this starts her emotional roller coaster and her awakening a whole host of new feelings about this daughter. They start up a relationship, but only after Blethyn is reluctantly forced to conquer the fact that this abandoned daughter is black. At first she is incredulous and refuses to believe it and says she never had sex with a black man, but she has a breakdown when she realises she did. It is not clearly spelled out for us (which is another fabulous aspect of foreign films which leave much to the viewer&#8217;s conjecture) but it is alluded to that Blethyn may have been raped by Hortense&#8217;s father. Blethyn hides the relationship with Hortense from the daughter she has reared and also from her brother and his wife, until she invites Hortense to a birthday party for her younger daughter and introduces her as a friend from work. Eventually Blethyn breaks down and cries (as she often does throughout the movie, which lends emotional credibility but is incredibly hard on the ears) and confesses that Hortense is her daughter. This creates a huge amount of turmoil but all turns out all right in the end. A beautifully written film and worth viewing.