If you are considering buying this blu-ray release, then I don't have to sell you on this wonderfully entertaining movie.  There are plenty of online reviews that will do that.  This is a classic action comedy movie that didn't do well at the box office in 1986, but has attracted a growing audience with time.  If you own the DVD, the only benefit that I could tell is the upgraded quality.  Kudos to 20th Century Fox on a job well done.

The transfer to blu-ray is great.  The video is sharp and clean, there were no artifacts that I could tell.  Color and clarity was on par with film.  The audio is crisp.  Watching it in blu-ray reminds me of the original theatrical release on the big screen; too bad it only took 23 years.  If you only own the VHS version, this will be like night and day.  In fact, some of the deleted scenes are raw footage or stuff from the beta-max release and you can tell how bad video was back then.  Oh yeah, you get to see a young strapping Kurt Russell and Kim Catrall who was simply gorgeous.

The commentary appears to be the same from the DVD release.  John Carpenter and Kurt Russell not only recount their memories of filming the movie, but also offer their personal insights into film making, acting, and their experiences together.  On top of that, they often stop commenting on the movie altogether and talk about personal stuff like their kids and how they're growing up.  This is both good and bad as you can tell the two really enjoy being around each other, but it also detracts from hearing anything worthwhile that they could have commented on during certain scenes.  They both recognize this and apologize a number of times.  But overall, it was definitely enjoyable and added more to the movie.

Other extras are the featurette, deleted scenes, extended ending, photo gallery (lots of pics), music video, interview with Richard Edlund, trailer and TV spots.  While flipping through the menu options, you may randomly get a Jack Burton quote displayed;  not sure if this was done on the DVD menu as I didn't own that.

I got this on sale for $12.99 and it was well worth it.