It is pretty difficult for me to say something is the best. I am VERY PICKY, and with the exercise & fitness industry I am also very leary, because there are SOOOO many BAD programs available. Some programs are being taught by people who should NOT be in the fitness industry, and these same people try to create programs for children, which is even a bigger blunder. Children are different than adults, because they're children, this sounds simple enough for parents, but most children's programs I've tried for my kids are adult oreinted. Probably the worst program is Tae-Bo Jr. This program was almost a direct repeat of the regular Tae-Bo program, but with kids TRYING, I repeat TRYING to do the movements. Kids are kids, they need to be treated & respected as kids, especially with something as important as exercise.

This program - Kick to Get Fit Jr. - For Kids, is like nothing I've ever seen. To start with, Rich Grogan, the guy conducting the program, actually has experience with children. He is physical education teacher, a Martial Arts instructor, and a personal trainer, and his best quality (as if this isn't enough), he has a TERRIFIC connection with the children in his video. These kids are truly having fun, and are genuinely happy about doing this program. This comes through VERY CLEARLY on the screen, and is immediately picked up on by my children. Kids who see other kids having fun, want to immediately join in on the fun.

This program provides a challenge for the kids, BUT isn't TOO CHALLENGING. The movements are very easy to follow, and extremely fun to do, I've done the program a number of times with my kids, and it gives me a pretty good workout. We do everything from jumping jacks, push ups, grabbing apples & oranges (This is Rich's twist on doing punches & uppercuts), to riding a horse, and running to the cafeteria. This program is fun and my kids love it, they actually ask OFTEN to do the "Kids Kick video".

From a proud parent, and from 3 happy kids, we give this program 8 thumbs up. That's 2 thumbs a piece!!!!!