It is cold and rainy today. Snow is coming. I needed something warm and friendly. "Mr. Holland's Opus" seemed like it would fill the bill. It is a film I have seen four times prior to today. I have enjoyed it each time, but today I found myself very moved by it. Maybe it's late midlife, maybe it's being unemployed, maybe it's my general state of concern for our educational system, or maybe it's my need to focus on what really counts and how we really touch each other's lives.

Today, what held my attention was the relationship between a father whose life is built upon music and a son who cannot hear a note. Each struggles to "listen" to the other but lack a common medium. And then music shows the way. A deaf Beethoven lies upon the floor listening to his piano by way of the vibrations that pass from piano through wood. Cole tunes an engine be touching his ear to a screwdriver resting on the motor. Glenn Holland learns to speak to his son through sign language and the linking of sound to light. The film is all about listening and hearing. A new teacher who teaches because he cannot make a living as a composer listens to a principal who challenges his lack of connection and he becomes a master teacher. A husband listens to a wife looking to make a life, to have a home, and to reach beyond the deafness of a child to enter that child's mind. A wife listens to her husbands desire for fresh love from a student infatuated with him and stands off to the side knowing that he would do the right thing. A football coach befriends a music teacher, becomes his ally and then teaches his band to march, and his football players to dance listening to a side of himself that was easily shut down. A teacher listens to a football coach who says that the failure of a student to learn is a greater challenge to the teacher not the end of the road for the student.

In the closing scene Mr. Holland, ending his career because the music program that he created has been eliminated, figures his life has amounted to very little. And then he gets to conduct a piece of music he has been trying to complete for 40 years. That piece of music is not confined to the pages before him or to the instruments that sound the notes. The musical masterpiece, his opus, is the great work he has done with the people whose paths he crossed in his apparently not-so-great life.

The film has moved into my top 20 for "those that inspire."