I've been an Evangelion fan for quite some time and because of that I decided to start collecting the Platinum series in addition to my current EVA collection (Perfect Collection, Death/Rebirth, End of Evangelion and the two Director Cut DVD's) but with all products I see 2 kinds of reviews: in favor of the product or against it. But never something descriptive, so now I'm having a shot at it.

So what is the Platinum collection...  Its a re-make of the original Neon Genesis Evangelion series. The sound dub's have been re-mastered (and in some cases re-done, for example the Japanese 5.1 dub) and the animation itself has been enhanced. This enhancement consists of a re-creation of the original picture (you can see this very clearly when comparing the original with this version) as well as newly added material. In contrary to what most people (including Amazon) say this DVD does hold new material, even though some of it consists of scenes which only last for 1 or 2 seconds. And if you've seen the original you can see that these small extra's really can enhance the overal experience.

This release also makes it quite clear that its aimed toward collectors. The DVD comes in a (cardbord) box which is shaped in the same way as the "Perfect Collection" box, it only has a different print and uses a different color (silver/grey). The box has room to house all 7 DVD releases. The DVD box is inserted in a silver cardbord box which has some very nice decorations on it. This one features a line-drawing of Shinji standing in front of some powerlines (as can be seen in the first episode) at the front, the back tells you what episodes are on the DVD. The DVD box itself comes with a very nice booklet which explains whats on the DVD and also has some nice Evangelion artwork. And to finish up; you'll get your own "Nerv Parking Permit"; a shine-through sticker which you can stick on the inside window of your car. All in all: its very clear that this isn't just an ordinary Evangelion DVD.

However, although the Platinum collection is a very good DVD its not as good as the original. Its like comparing a book with a movie: the book describes details and leave you to make up your own image of the scenes. In the original Evangelion serie not everything was drawn in precise detail, thus leaving it up to the viewer to form the complete picture. In my opinion this adds a lot to the whole experience. Things don't always have to be perfect in order to be experienced as perfect.

So is the Platinum collection worth it ?

If you are a fan of the series I'd say yes. Even if you already own the original series I'd still advice you to consider this one as well (a bit like Star Wars and the later released extended version) simply because of the extra's it offers and is going to offer.

However, if you just want to get an impression of the "Evangelion experience" then I'd advice you to seriously consider as to what you really want. If you just want a peek then this is a good DVD: cheaper than the original, holds 1 more episode than the original release 0-1 and has some nice collectors items.

But if you're new and plan on getting the whole serie then I'd advice you to start with the "Perfect Collection". Its cheaper, its original material and by the time you've finished that one you can always consider getting the Platinum collection. I'm pretty sure that a whole boxed set will eventually be released, which will probably cost you a lot less than collecting every DVD seperatly.

But...  For fans this is really a must have collection.