In the tradition of Mel Brooks' recently film turned Broadway "The Producers", Lloyd Kaufman's "Terror Firmer" and Robert Townsend's "Hollywood Shuffle", "Bowfinger" gives a hilarious look at how dysfunctional Hollywood really is.  I really believe the character Bobby Bowfinger was Steve Martin's homage to Kaufman and the late Ed Wood, with the tone of the exaggerated premises that take place.  And Eddie Murphy, one of the great comedians of our time, always plays characters in his films with his own original unique characterization.  But in thsi film, Murphy shows his true acting ability by playing characters that are nothing like his persona (but in a way they are because of his ability.)  As Kit Carlson he plays the diluted self-absorbed millionaire pampered action star, and him being black makes this character even more hilarious.  It garners one of my favorite lines, "Shakespeare?  Oh, I see...shake a spear, spearchucker, you're calling  me a spearchucker in my own house."---Carlson spouts at his agent before firing a gun in paranoid anger.  Of coarse it turns out Carlson is really crazy, causing him to be a client at Mindhead(screenwriter Steve Martin's inside jab at Hollywood stars who worship the Church of Scientology.)  He sees aliens and wants to "show it to the Laker girls".  This of coarse is a perfect set up for Bobby Bowfinger's attempt to shoot the movie by just running up to poor Carlson and filming aliens, gunfights, car chases, and other key elements needed to make a low-budget action film like this.  Murphy's other character, the Gump-ish twin to Kit, is also great because unlike his other multi-character films like "Nutty Professor" Murphy plays another character (more in the Peter Sellers tradition)instead of another carciture of his comedy persona.  The freeway crossing scene is one of the great moments in comedy history.  The additional features alsogive you a feel of what message Steve Martin was trying to get across, and he definitely knows what he's doing.  Martin, besides being one of the most unappreciated playwrights there is today, has written probably the best script since his classic "The Jerk"  This film definitely inhibits that same demented sensibility. Definitely a comedy classic that will hold over time.