My review of "Heartbreak Ridge" is based on what I saw at the threatre, not the DVD release.  "Heartbreak Ridge", (named after a battle that took place during the 1950-1953 Korean War), was first supposed to be set in an Army Unit, but, the Army backed out, (too much foul language), so it has a Marine Corp setting.  Clint Eastwood is an older, (but not softer), Marine whose job it is too whip some new soldiers into shape.  Since it's been 8 years since the end of the Vietnam war, they don't take it too seriously, but then they have to go into Grenada where the war is real.  Clint also has a drinking problem and his wife, portrayed by Marsha Mason, has seen it all.  While the film has it's share of memorable scences, many of them based on historical facts; the movie has a huge omission--there is not one word about the bombing of the Marine barracks in Lebanon Oct. 22,1983. For this movie to ignore Lebanon will make it look like a public relations gimmick, instead of the very good film it is.  Many people, at the time, said Grenada was an attempt to take the country's mind off of what was happening in the Middle East.  The White House said Grenada was in the planning stage long before Oct. 22. The film shows Clint and Marsha at a party the night the bombing occured, (before Clint gets called into action), and that's when they could have brought up the incident.  The barracks bombing killed a great many people and the French troops in Lebanon were also attacked with a bomb that same day. Soon after, the Americans, French, and Italians, (who were there as peace keepers), left Lebanon, and the Syrians moved in.  I really liked this movie, but, they should have said something about Lebanon.  A movie about Americans serving in uniform that doesn't say a word about a great many other Americans serving in uniform being killed, (at the exact same time), is inexuseable.  I think this is the only "Hollywood" film about Grenada, although PBS did a documentary on it, and another one about Lebanon.