Insomnia is a bit different from what Christopher Nolan is known for, but it's still another fantastic notch on his belt. I stated in my review of The Prestige that, that movie was possibly his weakest, and I felt that way until revisiting this film. I think Insomnia is his weakest entry overall, but it was still a fantastic thriller. Calling any of Nolan's film weaker than their counterparts doesn't quite mean the same as it would for many other filmmakers, because I like all of his films that I've seen. First of all, the pacing is surprisingly well done. His films tend to run two hours plus, but this one was just under two hours. That was great because it had a quicker pace that captured the feeling of trying to solve a murder case in the first few days (any First 48 fans out there?). This movie was a remake apparently, I wasn't aware of that until doing some research. It's a remake of a 1997 Erik Skjoldbjærg movie by the same name. I cannot judge whether or not it does the original justice, but I can say that it is worth a watch.

Al Pacino did a great, if not subdued, job as a conflicted veteran LAPD officer who recently came under scrutiny for some questionable acts he and his partner committed while on the job. What's new, it's the LAPD? Opposite of Pacino was Robin Williams as a creepy local novelist, and my was he great. Between this and One Hour Photo, I've seen a sinister side of Williams that I'd love to see more, and more of in the future. Hilary Swank rounds out the leads as an unexperienced, and eager, local officer assisting Pacino's character, Dormer, on this investigation. She's always reliable, and hardly ever outshines her co-stars. Same goes for her in this film. Aside from the effective leads, another aid to this film in setting the tone of a classic suspense novel or film was the snowy, cold, lonely Alaskan setting. Alaska, when used correctly, can be an amazingly chilling (no pun intended) setting for any bleak, mysterious, etc story. Insomnia is not as dark as what one would have grown accustomed to by Nolan's standards (literally because the sun never sets in Alaska), but because of the somber tone, it's still a dark story.

The story is also pretty complex. It's not difficult to follow by any means, but the way that events unfold increasingly complicate things for our lead character, until that faithful day in all suspense thrillers where things come to a head and then pop, like a figurative pimple. It was really interesting to see Pacino's character progress through one distressing situation after another, all while battling his own demons from his past. Again though, the actors are what really drive this thriller home. Not to beat a dead horse, but Robin Williams is quite disturbing, and Hilary Swank also did quite well. The music did not stand out as much as the scores in Nolan's films usually do. This was before Nolan and Zimmer hooked up, so that's understandable. Overall, I liked it a lot. It hasn't become a classic in its genre, but it's still a great crime story and case study. It's smartly crafted, and definitely worth everyone's time.