Two years ago, the world first learned about the Firefly family, a clan whose demonic and ritualistic murders were the theme of the horror movie "House of 1000 Corpses". Now, some of the same characters have returned for another adventure in "The Devil's Rejects". This time, we get a film that is bloodier, more disturbing, and more intense. So who would ever believe that this movie isn't actually a horror?

Director Rob Zombie, a human milestone in rock music, admits not being completely satisfied with the previous movie, his directorial debut. "House of 1000 Corpses", which also featured Zombie's wife Sherri, was somewhat of a surprise hit and immediately obtained cult classic status. This despite the fact that many were disappointed by the end result: a complete mess that was practically cartoonish in its absurdity.

Now with a bigger budget, Zombie presents the follow-up, "The Devil's Rejects", which is, in every way possible, better than its predecessor.

The film begins with the Firefly family being woken up by a police shoot-out outside, that is aimed at them. Responsible for this is the vengeful Sheriff Wydell (William Forsythe), whose brother was killed in the previous installment.

Several Firefly members manage to escape and Wydell makes it his mission to hunt them down. What then follows is a morbid slideshow of depravity as the Fireflys take their murderous behavior on the road.

After seeing the movie, you might find yourself redefining what a horror movie is supposed to be. There is no monster or supernatural element in this story, much of which happens during the day. It is clear that the movie wasn't designed to actually scare, but the way it masterfully forces the viewer to keep watching makes it a thriller. It is the suspense, which Zombie pushes to the complete extreme, that makes this film unclassifiable. It is a truly unique experience.

Since the film's main characters are murderous, it becomes difficult to decide what the outcome should be -- especially when the sheriff starts acting as insane the fugitives he's trying to capture. This all leads to a climactic finale that is nothing short of breathtaking.

Despite a rusty start, Zombie can now officially be recognized for his filmmaking talents. While "House of 1000 Corpses" tried to be something it wasn't, "The Devil's Rejects" is what it wants to be, and people will either love it or hate it.