When my brother turned 25 and there was no indication that he would ever move out of our parents' basement or stop stealing from our mom's purse, I suggested he get his life together by following the example of Adam Pontipee in 'Seven Brides For Seven Brothers.'  In the movie, Adam Pontipee is the eldest of seven brothers who were described as "slummucky backwoodsmen."  They were filthy and they were rude!  But like any good brother would, Adam decided to go into town to bring back someone he wouldn't have to pay to take care of him and his brothers - a wife!  Describing his home life, Adam said, "The place is like a pig sty.  The food tastes worse.  So I made up my mind.  Next time I go into town, I'm gonna get me a wife."  The townspeople were skeptical that Adam would actually find someone, but he showed them!  The smooth-talker met and married a girl named Milly within the same day!  Besides being a great cook and an efficient washwoman, Milly proved valuable in improving the brothers' social graces as well.  She told them, "When you meet a girl, don't just grab her like a flapjack!  Hold off for a little while, offer her your arm."  She even taught them how to dance, which helped them pick up some girls at the barn raising (in a rousing dance sequence that will make you want to stomp your feet with joy!).  Even though the brothers resort to kidnapping to get the girls to marry them later, as Shakespeare said, "All's well that ends well."  Armed with this knowledge and inspired by the proactive life decision made by Adam Pontipee, my brother set out to find a bride.  It turned out that no girl in this country would have him, so he continued his search in our home country in Southeast Asia.  In no time at all, he returned with a dutiful, reserved wife who knows her place.  Our family dinners are no longer steeped in quiet resentment.  We now have excited discussions about my new sister-in-law's duties for the next day.  And we have Adam Pontipee to thank for our happy family!