The Show:

Judging by the first disc, (having never seen this show before, it was dropped from syndication in my area many years ago), so far, I would say this show is equal to that of Bonanza and that's no easy feat. Surprisingly, the subject matter is a bit jarring considering the time frame ('65-'66) The cast is just as strong as that of Bonanza, sadly it didn't have the same viewer shelf life (only four seasons). My favorite character is probably "Jarrod Barkley". If for no other reason than Richard Long is one of the most underrated actors of the sixties. His performances in "The Twilight Zone" have forever cemented him in my mind as a memorable face/s (see: Number 12 Looks Just Like You). While I love the "Heath" character (played by Lee Majors) I am not as impressed with the "Audra" character played by Linda Evans (though she is GOOD). Of course Barbara Stanwyck is gold and Peter Breck nicely rounds out the brooding big brother role ("Nick"). So far the guest stars have been as equally impressive. Quality guest stars in my mind, make the "good" shows great and the "fair" shows... forgotten. When the quality of a Warren Oates is merely "routine" you have a guaranteed WINNER. To think I even hesitated at buying this set, then again, how could I have ever assumed this show would be THIS good?

Technical:

The color is pretty vibrant, sadly there are often grains and artifacts. Sometimes, major lines which run throughout a scene, I suppose we should be grateful to even have this, still, interviews and cleaner transfers shouldn't be too much to ask. The sound is about on par with this time period and I have given up asking why Star Trek is the only 60's show to go 5.1 DD, that horse remains beaten.

Price:

Do the makers of these DVD sets know how much we WOULD pay to have these priceless treasures of our past? I wonder how many here take pause from time to time and imagine the age we are in currently. Complete boxsets for a fraction of what they are worth!! Some quick math; how can a 90 minute "hit or miss" movie be $20 or so, and a 1,532 minute (25.5 hours!) set of a TRUE classic TV series be only a fraction more than that price?

Loose ends:

They really went the extra mile with the packaging, pics, and episode description and for that I give kudos. I just love the sweeping scores from bonafide orchestras, it truly makes one realize how far we've fallen from TRUE classic television. If you've been stuck in the past, The Big Valley is a good way to remain there... with me:)