"Guilty pleasure" seems to be an extremely popular expression these days, generally meaning something you know you're not supposed to like, but you like it bigtime.  Jerry Springer comes to mind.  Bad acting, predictable fistfights... but it's proof positive, merely by its longevity, that guilty pleasures are, well, pleasing.  We could say the same for all these reality shows, or those local news stories where the reporter sticks a mike into somebody's face, asks what it's like to have your puppy run over, and just wait for that big tear to roll down...
Let us face it: it is human nature to thoroughly enjoy things not despite their bad qualities, but BECAUSE of them.  This is also the meaning of "camp."

By 1963, the release year of "I Could Go On Singing," Judy Garland, a very intelligent performer, was fully aware of the bad qualities that kept her camp-starved audiences coming back for more.  If you wanted someone to show up on time and sing in a sweet voice, there were hundreds of singers to choose from.  But with Garland, you could tell and recycle a good story-- she was late, stumbled around, sang two songs beautifully, then sang badly and forgot the lyrics until she collapsed before the ambulance arrived.  It was all part of her standard performance starting in 1951 when she fell on her butt at the London Palladium, right up to her tone-deaf final Scandinavian tour in 1969.

The question is: do these shennanigans translate well to DVD or VHS?  The answer is negative.  And as I watched "ICGOS" I tried to put my finger on it-- why was this not working?  And what I came up with is this: When Judy was bad in person or on a movie screen, you felt embarrassed for her.  When Judy was bad in a DVD, or on television, watching from the privacy of your own home, you can easily feel embarrassed YOURSELF, a most unpleasant sensation. It is like stepping into an elevator where someone silently farts.  Gosh, will people think it's me?!

The plot, the script, the dialogue, the music (particularly the theme song: I could go on singing 'til the cows come home/ And the rooster starts to crow-crow-crow... THAT DOESN'T EVEN RHYME!), the spastic choreography, the frumpy costumes, schoolboys in girl drag (I'm not making this up), the over-wrought bad acting... I could go on complaining.  But here's the irony: there are many of Judy's fans who would prefer this dreadful film to something truly excellent, i.e. "Meet Me in
St. Louis, "The Clock," or "A Star is Born" in which Garland is at the top of her game.  Go figure.

Therefore, if you're into "guilty pleasures" or old-fashioned high camp, "ICGOS" is for you.  If you'd prefer to remember Judy for her incomparable talent and thrilling performances- and there were many- then maybe you ought to pass.