Wow, I can't believe there have been 5 star ratings for Britney on here.  Now, I'm not going to 'bash' her but explain a few truths to the last comment that Britney is 'still as successful' as she was when her 1st, 2nd or 3rd album came out. Britney is doing very, very bad, boys and girls. But she doesn't want you to know.

Has someone forgot the horrible single 'Me Against the Music'? It didn't even chart the US billboard. And the reason? It's horrible crap.  Has someone listened to the new single on her "Greatest Hits"? The single "I've Just Begun (Having My Fun)" sounds exactly like No Doubt's "Hella Good" but with more whistles and bells to camouflage the fact that is as unoriginal and boring as Britney.  "Hella Good" was an awesome song but a few years ago, and when it was `original'. And the two `new' songs on "My Prerogative" are also unoriginal and horrible as Britney in a new tight halter top.

As far as sales go, "In The Zone" is a failure. 3 million copies is horrible! Sarah McLaughan from my hometown of Vancouver has sold more than 3 million copies of her new album in less time and without as much press as Britney. Sarah only has a market in North America; whereas, Britney has the world at her overpainted nails. When Britney has a 'tv premiere' to promote her new album, just like Michael Jackson did a long time, you have to wonder how bad the album is. And Britney's albums are progressively getting worse like mold growing on cheese.

Now, fine Britney had a few #1's in the UK but I hate to say, British like horrible pop music. Westlife anyone? Boyzone? S Club 7 or Juniors? (Ok, I'm getting ill).

Now, Britney is good drinking music (meaning you have be very drunk to enjoy it) and I respect Britney for releasing (with big-name producers' and writers' help) previous `fun time' music. But as I realized many years ago, her sound hasn't changed one bit. Once a pop tart, always a pop tart.

Really, Britney, you're a [...]. Yes, I lied about not bashing her. Get someone to re-invent your image and music because it is very tiresome.(But if you do, come out with anything 'decent', I will be a happy.