Filmed in Paris in early December 1979 on the Highway To Hell tour, this is a perfect portrait of one of the greatest rock n roll bands of all time approaching the peak of their popularity. Most AC/DC fans are well aware of this concert film and hold it high as one of the coveted items in the bands catalogue. Of course the VHS version is the one everyone's had for so many years and fans have been dying for a restored DVD version. In the late 90's we had the Bonfire boxset, which contained the concert in it's entirety on CD. Not only that but the CD contained the full version of Walk All Over You which is cut short in the movie, and instead of actually seeing it, there is a strange music video type sequence of Phil Rudd in his car racing Cliff Williams in a plane in some kind of air field; as well as one of the bands encores TNT. However TNT was never included in the movie and no one seems to find it strange. Perhaps it was just never filmed, or maybe it was lost. But after all the griping the thing is finally out and it's pretty good. Awesome video and audio in all the right departments. But the extras are what's sorely lacking.

It's basically a few famous musicians like Scott Ian of Anthrax (when isnt he in something like this?!), Lemmy of Motorhead, Rick Allen of Def Leppard, The Donnas, Billy Corgan, the girl from NCIS (?!) a one off spot with a member of fellow Aussie hard rockers Rhino Bucket, metal/hard rock expert VH1 guy Eddie Trunk, and a few AC/DC afficienados. Of course they stammer on and on about how great the band is without really explaining anything and using the obvious tools of reference to describe the band (Chuck Berry riffs etc). The only ones who really say anything worth hearing is Billy Corgan and Trunk, they are real music fans here who understand the band's technique and explain it to you in a way thats interesting. Lemmy has a few cool comments but otherwise the rest are there to just rant on about how amazing rock n roll is and how great Bon was in a very uneducated way. Like they were asked to watch 5 min of the movie and then come up with something. They discuss everything from Angus' technique, Malcolm's importance to the rhythm section, Bon's death and what kinda guy he was etc. It gets slightly more interesting when they select a few songs and talk a little more indepth about them.

As a whole package its 4 stars, but the movie itself is definiatly 5. But overall, if you want the movie, if you love the concert its the package you'll wanna have. This show provides people who weren't there a glimpse of what it was like to see a band in the late 70's, before rock became corporate and acceptable, when it was still dangerous and kids who went to see them knew very little about the bands. They were just these strange magical guys who came up on stage and blew you away. That was the rebellious but slightly naive nature of going to shows in the 70's. Something that's very lost in todays times. Whether you're an AC/DC fan or just a fan of rock music, this is an essential concert movie and the short interview sections with the band provide a strange inlook without being corny. A great document of Bon Scott as one of rock's best front men. He died 2 months after it was filmed. It's a chestnut.