By the time the third season of Arrested Development began, it was clear that it would most likely be the final season, and the facts that FOX only ordered 13 episodes and then later dumped the final four episodes on the Friday night when the Olympic opening ceremonies were airing on NBC didn't bode well either.  Still, these did nothing to diminish the quality of one of the best comedies to air on American TV; in fact, likely cancellation probably gave Mitchell Hurwitz et al the balls to write one of the funniest episodes of the series: S.O.B.s, which took the show's already already highly self-referential style to new heights of meta-commentary humor (lame 3-D visual gags, overhyped promises to kill someone by the end of the episode, mentioning HBO and Showtime without actually mentioning them), the likes of which you'd be hard pressed to find in any other TV series.

I loved this series from the very first episode; it was one of those rare shows that hooks you in the pilot and never lets go.  Crisp, layered writing and directing rewarded me upon repeat viewings when, instead of paying attention to the main action or obvious jokes, I was able to pick out subtle visual gags, humorous throw-away lines to jokes first set up many episodes prior, and recurring gags that reward the devoted (some might say obsessive) viewer.

Perhaps the ballsiest plot ever on the series was the arc involving Michael falling in love with Rita, whom he comes to believe is a British spy out to get his family but in reality turns out to be a mentally challenged woman.  This kind of layered story-telling wasn't new to the series, but the fact that the writers wrote in such a way that the viewer wasn't sure who Rita was--whether she was the elusive "Mr. F", a British spy sent to wreak havoc upon George Bluth, or simply just a kinda strange woman who liked Michael.  As it turns out, there was no Mr. F, but really a MRF, and Michael ends up alone again and the government ends up with egg on its face.

I recommend this series to everyone I know.  It's one of the few that stands up to repeated viewings, and in fact, gets better with time.