This is a film about boys. And about love. It is about that first
beginning awareness of someone not before seen, then seen only
incrementally, then the burgeoning awareness that he will change your
life, that your sunrises and days will always be filled with that first
lingering. That first hope that fills with faster heart and butterflies
rushing in your stomach.

This movie is as natural as love, when in the world of a dream.
A movie that bridges lilting fancy with practicality.
That takes you where you know the world does not go, but makes
you believe it does-- totally, hypnotically. The most difficult thing for
artists to do and succeed. They succeed admirably here. One does not
doubt this fully realized actualized painting for a moment. There is
golden hue throughout. It is seen through the eyes of a boy, dreaming.
It is about that first moment when you are aware there is much
more to happiness than you thought, there is a certain expansiveness
no one ever told you about before.

Kim and Bo as heroes, and their
wistful play, their rush through sunshine and summer, all in a lark,
bittersweet and lyrical as the finest music, and a brighter light than
either of them had known before, live in a world of mostly safety,
where even bullies are routed with great zeal and humor. A world
that comes with the realization the pest who would not let you alone
is building hearth and home in his heart for you, and all you have to
do is walk right in, and you do so, most gratefully.
A so beautiful elfin worship turns out to be vastly important in Bo's eyes, thatspeck of perfect dust becomes a planet to explore for a lifetime.

It's about small artfully detailed minutia of a boarding school, the
studies, the homesickness, the playing about with "Adult" contrivances,
the danger of the swimming pool, the danger of looking into eyes that
look up at you, and the nettling realization there is something very
important here. All the giddy sweet awkwardness. The love of Kim and
Bo is wistful, filled with dreams, and always with a cheering laugh; the
shower scene is so full of goodness and rightness and giggles and prods
and pokes and secret little information, and there is no leer, no meanness
of soul, only the rather extra ordinary ability to see the world from the
.level of these children, without denigration or condescending.
Kim and Bo and some of their friends may remind you of a
dream before you were 14 or so, and believed with all your heart, you
would one day not have to turn from someone so very quickly, or he
from you, that you might smile and say hello, and he might be so very
glad you did.

The eyes of both of you, like the eyes of Bo and Kim,
dancing with sun slivers, caught in games that start with a touch here,
a quick glance there, and end with them kissing longly, in the film the
students make to show the headmasters and the parents' of the children
in boarding school.

And this is where the miracle comes to its graceful moment of
whimsy and tenderness and delicacy as that of sun shadows on a
butterfly's wings. All of it summer pond and filled with downy, almost
subliminal music. To have made this dream come true seem to actually
be happening without any justification, without any apology, and no
squalor and shame in any way, this is the ignoring of a world we see
around us. Conquer it? No. Don't fight it. Show another way. In the
real world. Where killing is acceptable.

Violence on sports fields fine. But this film's way: tender tendrils
from one person to another, the fibers that make up human beings with
gentleness and camaraderie and a lonely kind of sad following that finally
turns and sees you, really sees you...which would any sane person pick?
And the miracle is guided, so seemingly effortlessly, until you are
caught up in a certain epic of the human heart, the interstices of which
do not care for rules or what should be, and though the teachers are of
course non understanding, for the most part, they are not a threat. As
Kim and Bo receive help from many of the other children, it is
something of a heraldic shield cast down, that does not ask questions,
demand explanations, but accepts their love as what it is.

For the movie, which deserves to be on DVD, there is only the
direction in which it is headed, done with an almost touchable
tenderness, so much to fill the eye, capture the heart, if it has maintained
its wisdom and sense of wonder, just might remember the days of
balloon sailing in blue sky parks.