I'm sorry JM, but this just was not one of your better videos, in my opinion. First off, let me say I understand it is not the same, but I am very familiar with Tae Bo and I think that made this video much easier for me too be able to do. I think if you are not as familiar with such kinds of workouts it might take some time too catch on. That being said, for the most part I found these work outs quite doable (I did get rather confused with some of the combos but more on that later.) I do not think there is any reason someone who is new to kickboxing (or does not have a martial arts background, I don't) could not do them. As described, there are three twenty minute work outs (I find usually Jillian's workouts are longer than she says they are,)and a tutorial. I did do all three work outs, but too be honest I did not see very much difference in intensity between the levels. Jillian really just jumps right in; there was no real difference between the warm ups and other circuits I felt. This kind of annoyed me because I don't want to do a warm up before I even start a video, I think it should be included on the video. And I would rather gently start warming up my body gradually, than just jumping right in, with high knees for example. This is not as well organized as her other DVDs are. She does circuits with a combination at the end and I noticed that the second time through a circuit she leaves off the combination, in the level two and three work outs. As for the people who have been upset that she stays on the same side, she explains why she does this repeatedly, she even explains why she does this in her other videos. I stayed on my left and had no problem with it, it was not uneven. However, if you really want to do it on both sides there is no reason why you can't do it on one side in the first circuit and switch sides for the second, or play the video twice so you get a longer work out. As others have mentioned, she is not as instructional during these videos as she is in her other videos. She also has a lot more girls in this video than she usually does, so she does not 'pick' on the girls the way she does in her other videos. I did break a sweat doing these videos, but I did not find them to be as challenging as I had expected (I did level one on a day I had already worked out for the day and was easily able to do it. I did levels two and three back to back, again on a day that I had already worked out, and was able to do them.) What I did find to be a challenge, were the combinations. I felt that some of them were really awkward, consequentially my heart rate went down while I slowed down to go through them properly. As I said I did not find these work outs to be as challenging as hoped for, however as JM always says: if it's so freaking easy, add weights and go faster. So, you can definitely make them more intense on your own. Interestingly, level one was the only video in which your instructed to use weights, and the girls use them. (I used 5 lb weights, I did not add them for levels two or three.) The cardio moves were standard Jillian moves (jumping jacks, butt kicks, high knees, mountain climbers,etc) and some new moves (IE suicide runs.)And the cool downs was also very similar to her other cool downs. Overall, I am not thrilled with this new DVD, but I am going to keep it. It can definitely be intensified with added weights, range of motion and speed. And can be a fun supplement to other workouts. It's also convenient to have shorter work outs that can be done together or separately. Would I recommend this DVD? If you are a diehard JM fan and have an open mind about trying workouts that are not her typical style, yes. If you are interested in trying kickboxing and have the patience, or are looking for a short, fun, less intense (but modifiable) workout, yes. If you are looking for classic Jillian, not interested in trying an 'outside the box' work out, or looking for a very intense workout, no.