the communism witch hunt of america in the 50s was such a farce out of control, splitted america without any probable cause. same disgusting phenomenon happened too at that difficult time: everybody was chain-smoking so fiercefully like no tomorrow. i have to open all my windows around the whole house while watching this endless cigarette lighting-up and smoking movie. i just wondered any one of those clowns on the hills hunting communists in america really knew what communism was, anyone of them indeed read 'karl marx', anyone who claimed they knew and understood communism really studied lenin, mao or whoever came close to these reds. 'yellow is better than red', well said. redtagging in the 50s now transformed into bashing the liberals by the conservatists, and since when and how the 'right' claimed itself better than the 'left'? just because the majority using right hand? there's a theory and origin behind it, but how many people knew it? justified cigarette smoking everywhere in the public, on the stage, before the camera, in the office, in your home, on the train and the bus, in the theatre was not just tolerated but welcome and supported as a courtesy, the public took for granted and accepted without any reservation or protest, and now it's a sin to be shunned from like what we reacted to h.i.v. and aids. they way of how people's attitude toward some specific issue keeps changing and shifting as the gearbox mechanism in a car, whether automatic or manual. people smoking pots in the 70s as a trendy inspirational thing, but now it's a merciless hunting job for the d.e.a. now, the witch hunt focus on the 'terrorist' and the 'terrorism' supported by an unconstitutional 'patriotic act'. home invasion and human rights violation are tolerated, allowed and justified; why went to iraq toppled a muslim regime instead of taking down castro and cuba? .....you have to check by  yourself on these thoughts truthfully:

since 1776 till 2006, from the 18th century to the 21st century, how little the america and the americans have (been) changed(?); how much this constitutions have been improved, corrected and changed (?) for better or for worse?

two more things you have to ask yourself after watching this movie:

are you absolutely true to yourself and to your conscience?

did you ever realize how long you've been manipulated and how much you've been fooled?