I saw a trailer for this movie in the theaters, and the trailer people did a really good job, because it made me want to see this movie and made the movie look good.  Now I wonder if they even used any footage from this movie to make that trailer.

Watching this movie was like staring into a strobe light.  The whole movie seems to be nothing but flashing bits of images, too dark to make out, too fast to make out, cameras shaking and not being held still.

It seems like this is supposed to be another Aliens sequel, the creature looks exactly the same, it lives inside a host body, etc.  Only this is the worst of the Aliens series.  I don't see how anyone could watch the final production and allow it to go to theaters or DVD.  This may actually be the worst movie I have ever seen in my entire life, I was trying to think of some that were worse, but can't come up with anything yet.

Watching this actually makes you dizzy, and it really is just like looking into a strobe light for 2 hours.  The camera work is horrible, the acting is horrible, there is no story or plot, I can't think of anything good about it.

There is also no way a scientific crew fights with each other and acts the way these characters do.  Imagine watching a National Geographic special and everyone including the camera people fight with each other and beat each other up.  Ridiculous.

Movie also has no ending.  When they run out of film or budget (or perhaps just got tired of making the film) they just stop the movie and splice on the credits.  Not that the movie had any story line to begin with, so there is no dissapointment that you don't have an ending, since there was no story to end in the first place.  The credits were actually the best part of the movie.  It was still and you could make it out, and you were really happy that it was finally over.

The scariest part of this movie is when you realise the possibility that they might make a sequel to this.

AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!