I think this is a real and true piece of the 1960s, a decade that has always been quite mythologized for me by my folks. It captures a crucial moment in the shifting tide and in that sense, I'd say its on par with the film 'the Beatles First U.S. Visit' and could almost be watched in succession.

That being said I most like that in many ways its NOT a rose-colored glasses view of anything. Its just a low-key piece following a young charming and developing musical poet/genius. Who at times also comes across as an arrogant, shifty little jerk. Bob sort of does become a character in his own movie, LIVING through adulation with isolation.

The press is probing obsessively, wanting  what he thinks, what he believes, what he feels, what this lyric means, what that lyric means... "Yonder stands your orphan with his gun, crying like a fire in the sun, look out the saints are coming through" ...it all sounds like prophecy, almost Biblical in the emotional weight and urgency of the words. The usual techniques of the press were useless against Bob though, who seems determined to give them as few useable sound bytes to help them write their articles or satisfy their cravings as he could - no matter what the press or the fans are talkin' he sounds bored and uninterested in explaining himself as an artist.

I don't believe he ever at any point comes off as warm in this film, EXCEPT in the performance footage. Here, his personal motivations become irrelevant - in concert halls, in hotel rooms, in dressing rooms, backstage, its Dylan singing these words simply because he can, and because he needs to - both raw and polished at the same time. Raw in that the music was still in the intimate realm of a six-string and a voice to stir the emotions. Polished in that Dylan had already mastered the form and is clearly looking to expand. Set all this against the icy cold financial assessing of Albert Grossman and Columbia Records - the former carrying himself as a kind of Colonel Tom Parker for the folk scene - and Dylan's cynicism is more easily understood. The dual nature of his musical form was that he was in business - what he did was as much a product as any in that matter. And while the content of the scene was changing, obviously some things never changed.

See for me, Dylan might sound like an empty jerk at times. But he also sounds like a 24 year old kid. Someone who had barely coped with adolescence and now had to make sense of the strangeness of the world around him. In that I think he truly was the unwilling voice of a generation. There's no empty politics here - just Bob Dylan capturing the times in music and D.A. Pennebaker capturing them in reels. For a more expansive and grander look at Bob in the 60s look no further than Martin Scorsese's 'No Direction Home'. And for more on the humble beginnings of, what I might term, the cataclysmic cultural shift of the 60s, check out the first half of the documentary 'Berkeley in the Sixties'.