Elizabeth Banks (the personality-free Ruthless New York Career Woman caricature) engages in a heated debate with her devoted neighbor, and they start sneering about something that is "almost funny."  I latched onto those two words as a perfect description of this disappointing indie flick.  It's almost funny.  Really, it's almost a lot of things - almost a plausible story with effective dialogue, almost a comedy that elicits a laugh at any point, almost an affirmation of hope and innocence - but ultimately it isn't a success at much of anything.

I really did have high hopes for this one.  I like the lead actors (Paul Rudd as the titular Idiot Brother, Zooey Deschanel as the same adorable goof she always plays, Emily Mortimer as a mousy housewife, and the aforementioned Elizabeth Banks), and they each do a good job with the material given to them.  That material, though, is just not worth the ninety minutes of your life that you will devote to this movie.  The story has a quick intro where Rudd does a goodhearted but illegal thing and heads to jail (in case you ever forget what that illegal thing was, just wait a few minutes because characters keep mentioning it as if the description is somehow inherently funny), then in theory it's supposed to become a family story when he gets out of jail and needs support.  The family part of the story doesn't work, though - each of the characters is so flimsy, with one or two character traits and no real personality, that the viewer has no reason to believe that they're related or to care if they can work out their problems.  Rudd just kind of appears in scene after scene, saying things that slip from "innocent" to "aggressively stupid" - he keeps telling his family members about each other's secrets in a way that is less from a simple spirit and more from a lazy script that needs conflicts to move forward.

I wanted to like this movie.  I like quiet movies about families (The Family Stone, Elizabethtown), and quirky family movies with Emily Mortimer (Lars and the Real Girl), and movies with Zooey Deschanel doing her thing ((500) Days of Summer).  I wanted a story where these actors got to flesh out their characters, with some subtlety to engage me.  I got a fun-free paint-by-numbers indie flick that wasted the abilities of its on-camera talent.  And it was "almost funny."