I had mixed expectations when I rented "The Hulk".  It had been Marvel Comics' first post-"X-Men" film that flopped at the box office, and many critics had said it was overlong and far too slow.  And so I was very impressed with how much I enjoyed "The Hulk".
I have to assume that when everyone said the film was too slow, they were referring to its first 45 minutes.  It is true that viewing the first part takes a little patience, especially getting used to Ang Lee's sometimes bizarre camera tricks.  However, these beginning scenes are important buildup, and- unlike for "Matrix Reloaded"- I never thought that I was being had with unecessary scenes that were there only to drag out the running time.  "The Hulk" has much higher goals in mind than other comic book films out there, so all of these beginning scenes of character development and talking actually increase the overall quality of the film.  It is true that it's a while before we finally get to see the Hulk, but in a way keeping him off the screen for that long makes his inevitable appearance that much more dramatic and thrilling.
Once the action does kick into gear, it hardly ever lets up.  Contrary to what other reviewers have said, the CGI-ed Hulk is quite impressive looking, and the scene where he throws the army tanks and planes around like toys is one of the most memorable I've seen this year.
Almost all of the major characters are complex and conflicted, so we feel for them and care what happens to them.  For example, two characters who are technically villains- General Ross and David Banner- both show moments of sympathy.  The guy who plays Bruce Banner (Eric Bana) is adequate, though this wasn't an Oscar performance.  Jennifer Connelly is good as his girlfriend, who is also the only person that can calm the Hulk down.  I thought that Nick Nolte gave the most interesting performace- David Banner is completely insane, both sympathetic and dispicable.
If the film does have a weak spot, it's the ending.  I'm still trying to figure out exactly what happened in the final battle between Bruce and David Banner.  I understand the outcome, but I'm not sure how or why.  Director Ang Lee probably could have made this whole scene clearer.  Also, the movie is a little on the long side, though as I said earlier not a whole lot obviously needed to be cut.
So overall, I found this to be an enjoyable and interesting movie, up there with "X2" and "Spider-Man" as one of the best comic book adaptations of the current decade.  In some ways, it was even superior to those films.  For those of you out there that haven't seen it, I would recommend it.  For those who don't like it, I won't try to change your mind, but there's no way that "The Hulk" was a complete disaster.  I for one will be sad that it did so poorly at the box office, because now there won't be a sequel.