There's an old cliche that says "the whole is greater than the sum of it's parts." Well, this movie is the opposite - a situation where a wide range of components are merge and somehow fail to to measure up to expectations.
By now, everyone know the story: Goldie Hawn plays Suzette, an ex-bartender/groupie who looks up fellow ex-groupie Vinnie (Lavinia, played by Susan Sarandon). Along the way, she meets up with Geoffrey Rush's character, an aging, failed writer with father issues.
The themes the movie tries to tackle - basically, being true to oneself and finding a sense of identity - are good ones. The script just isn't all that interesting. This should be a character driven movie, but it isn't. The director and writer just never create the tension needed to make me invest in these people. It takes too long for Suzette and Vinnie to hook up, and when they do, the time that Suzette's actually back in her life is too short to realistically cause the supposed chaos it does. The relationships just weren't developed enough to make me care. 
I have to say that the best thing about the movie was the acting. Susan Sarandon, as always, was brilliant. She did her best to make Vinnie real. That's quite an accomplishment, given how little was written for her. It's frustrating, because this role really could've been a twenty-first century statement about feminism, and where women are in society, and where we'd still like to go. 
The rest of the cast was equally impressive. Hawn was a great deal better than I expected - I'm not a fan of hers, yet I thoroughly enjoyed her performance. She gave Suzette depth, soul and layers. Geoffrey Rush was great; a wonderful mix of comedy and pathos. Still, I almost wish his character wasn't in the movie, because all his scenes took away from the time Hawn had with Sarandon and co. I really liked the teens who played Lavinia's daughters - both seemed realistic to me. Robin Thomas, as Lavinia's husband, was fine, although he didn't have much to do. He's a good actor, actually - he deserved a more well-defined role.
In general, this movie gets a low rating from me not because it's bad, per se, but because it had the potential to be so much better. If you're a fan of Hawn, Sarandon, or Rush, it's worth it for the performances alone - just wait for the video/dvd.