I could literally go on for hours and hours (or pages and pages) about how simply wonderful the original Muppet Movie is. Dialogue from this film has seeped its way into my wife's and my daily conversations. When giving directions the term "Bear Left" is always immediately followed by "Right Frog.". When trying to get the other to lend a hand a monotone "Help. Help. This is a serious cry for help" will get the other up and to their side faster than anything else. Princess Bride is the only flick that has permeated itself more into our wedded subconscious.

The songs are immensely humable. The soundtrack has existed in our home on vinyl, cassette tape and is now sitting in our CD Jukebox in constant rotation. Movin' Right Along is the first thing to escape our lips on long car trips and I Hope That Something Better Comes Along was played at our wedding.

I won't even go into the cameos because they are a cacography of the time the film was made. Everyone want!ed to be seen with the Muppets.

This is one of my favorite films of all times. That's what makes this review so hard to write.

These chunks of emotion and inspiration wrapped up in felt and fur deserve better than this. The bonus features on all the recently released disks are sparse at best. All come with "Muppetisms", very short commercials that I assume ran on TV at some point. They are at most 30 seconds long and, while amusing, really only whet the appetite.

The Muppets Take Manhattan comes with an interview done with Jim Henson, but it is spliced and diced up so that between each question the viewer is returned to a menu and forced to prompt the disk to play the next segment. At the minimum a Play All option should have been added.

There are literally tons of additional supplements that could have been added. Skits done on Saturday Night Live, Rowlf's appearances on the Jimmy Dean Variety show and Kermit hosting the Tonight Show would have b!een great. A feature length commentary with Frank Oz would have gotten me to turn handsprings. Toss in a DVD Muppet encyclopedia or a copy of the PC game that came out a few years ago and my head would have just exploded with a burst of confetti!

I can't not recommend this movie just because of the lack of supplements, but I don't have to be happy about it either.

I am sure that somewhere down the line there will be super-duper, ultra-collectors versions of these films and I can't wait for that day to come. Princess Bride was originally released in a similar version with no supplements and I was just happy to get it on disk and in Widescreen. There is now a two-disk collectors edition in the works coming out in September of this year. (2001). I guess they just saw me coming.