I was pretty impressed with the first episode of Masters of Horror and soon after I started getting myself ready for what was in store next. So for the second episode Showtime premiered 'Dreams in the Witch House'. Directed by Stuart Gordon (Re-Animator, Dagon) Dreams in the Witch House is based on the short story by beloved author HP Lovecraft. In this story we fallow Walter Gilman, a college student who rents out an apartment in a 300 year old building. With very few house mates he settles in what he thought was a quiet apartment. Till he starts having dreams of this talking rat with a human face. He soon realizes that the room he's renting has a small portal to some other form of universe. He then is being haunted by a witch who wants him to spill innocent blood.

I've always been a big fan of Stuart Gorden and his work. His films like Dolls, From Beyond, Dagon and most of all Re-animator have a special place in my heart. I had high expectations for his episode in the Masters of Horror series. Luckily I did hope for the best because I was both impressed and stunned at the same time. I find Gorden's film career to be very impressive and I love his way of film making. His Masters of Horror Episode is based on the story by HP Lovecraft. If you look at Gorden's film list you'll notice that a lot of work the work that he's done were based on HP Lovecraft tales. I honestly believe that he is the right man to adapt such horror literature. Not only does he stay faithful to the original story but he doesn't really seem to soften any up. What surprises me the most about Dreams In the Witch House is that it ends on such a bad note, yet I find myself so attached to the story and characters that it didn't bother me so much.

There's no happy ending to this story and I'm sure that those of you who've read the original story know exactly what I'm talking about. You can call it rude, messed up or evil. I can't argue with that but in some way I see the art to it, in which how far you can push the envelope. I felt that Stuart Gorden pushed it just a tad bit too far, but I still loved Dreams In the Witch House. It's a film that has you focused on the characters and the actual plot that you ignore all the technical aspects of the picture. A lot of the times when I watch horror pictures I look at certain scenes and I would question how they did that effect. This film however had me glued to the screen where I felt sympathy for the characters. I love seeing blood and gore in genre films. Only this time it was the characters and the actual plot that was more rewarding to me.

If you thought the first episode of Masters of Horror was good, then you haven't seen anything yet. This episode is nothing short of entertaining. The story is good and the overall look of the movie is fantastic. We fallow a character who tries to uncover this strange mystery and what he finds isn't pretty. This episode has blood, nudity and some really interesting characters. Overall I thought this was a great film. I didn't really find anything wrong with it. There are hardly any slow or dull parts. There are even a few jumpy moments which I gladly admit really got to me. Its one of those movie moments where you know whats going to happen and you sit there and wait for something scary to pop up. Even when I expected it, it still made me jump and it freaked me out for a split second. Once again if you thought the first episode was good, then you have to check out Dreams in the Witch House. There&#8217;s more blood and definitely more scares.

The bonus features on this DVD are amazing. Although it's not jam packed with hours of bonus material Anchor Bay gives us exactly what horror viewers want. There's the usual behind the scenes stuff where we see the film in the making. There are also interviews with the cast and crew as well as interviews with actors from Stuart Gorden's previous films. The audio commentary is great but the feature that I enjoyed the most was the interview with Stuart Gorden. I'm guessing that this feature will be on every single DVD. It's a small documentary which Gorden himself talks about his film career. From stage actor to horror icon, you learn about the success and ups and downs from the director himself and that feature alone made me glad to own the DVD.