I've just seen the fantastic movie "View From The Top" at the theatre and I'd like to say I highly recommend that you all see it if you can.
I'm not going to reveal too much about the movie, but wow I was impressed. The commercials for this movie try to market it as a comedy. Well, it has some funny parts, but believe me the movie is alot deeper and interesting than just a simple comic spoof on the airline industry. And it's certainly no spoof.
Rather it captures the life of a flight attendant, the aviation world, and being an up and coming pilot myself (not licensed) I can tell you this movie hits it pretty close to home. It may sound strange to some, but just two minutes into the movie I was already choked up a bit as the camera turned from images of the main characters' childhood, to the sky. It just left me with that feeling I get sometimes when I'm not sure if where I want to go in the future is where I'm really headed...when I think about the pilot I want to be, and wonder if I'll ever make it. 
It struck a chord. :)
And it's alot like that throughout the entire movie. From the most humble (and sometimes embarrassing) beginnings to the first big break, to leaving your loved ones behind to chase those dreams....to finally come back home after all that time away...this movie captures the adventures and trials of living a life in aviation...of finding your direction...and adds a bit of humour along the way.
There's a great balance between comedy, drama, and emotion in this movie. Just funny enough to not be cheesy, just serious enough to not be overly dramatic. In short, an excellent show.
I felt that the ending came a little too quickly but I'll let you be the judge of that, and just say that this is a movie that if you haven't see it yet, you need to see it as soon as possible! :)
Of course I'm biased, after all aviation like many other things makes up a big part of my life, but this is the first time in years I've seen an actual, honest, good movie about aviation and the life we in that industry live (or hope to live). With so many movies out there about air disasters that pack on the adrenaline, it's nice to see something that bucks the trend and adds value and meaning to the world of aviation, even if it does mean throwing a few tears and laughs into the mix. This, perhaps, may be one of the best aviation based movies ever created, if only for the fact that it sticks to ideals and doesn't over-do it. 
Overall, a well balanced movie that takes you on the sometimes difficult journey of a flight attendant. The trials seen are the same as those in real life face in this industry, nothing feels or seems fake or "hollywooded-up" as it were. Coming from an aviation enthusiast, I think that says alot. 
Go see it, you won't regret it. :)
P.S. Did I mention that Gwyneth Paltrow's performance was simply outstanding?