Only Quentin pulled out this wonderful ending.

With Carradine gave this punch-line "Baby, you ain't kidding" before the grand final battle. It almost killed me with laughing but Quentin didn't give me enough time enjoy it, he threw in the sword-fight and fist-fight immediately. Luckily for me, I watched DVD so I could rewind it. ;-)

And the conversation between Thurman and Carradine is masterfully written in both the living room and patio.

I believe Quentin could pull out Kill Bill 3 and Kill Bill 4 as well as Kill Bill Episo One easily.

Carradine's act is favorite one since Tommy Lee Jones in MIB when he bought the Tabloid at the counter and when he accepted the drink offer from the lady at the farm house. So funny and so professional. ;-)

A few points I observed from this movie:

1) 2 seemingly unrelated scenes: killing Bill and killing Elle. We know Kiddo would kill Bill at the end but how? The whole 2 movies revolving around the Hanzo's sword. Then it had been what we all anticipated. Then Kiddo poked out Elle's last eye after Kiddo questioned Elle about the first lost eye (Mei Pei did it). I could not realize it until now that it was an introduction to the ultimate technique that he taught her. And she kept it secretly so that she could use on Bill at the end. (See human complexity below.)
2) Long fight between Bill and Kiddo: we all waited to see a long violent fight between them. It didn't happen but it DID happen. The whole 2 movies are about how Bill tried to kill Kiddo violenly but unsuccessfully. Then he stacked up the killers to stop her.
3) Bill did not want to kill Kiddo: he stopped Elle when she was about to kill Kiddo in the hospital in the first movie. He could just kill her by gun when they were in the living. Or ordered Budd to terminate Kiddo. And so on.
4) Bill is a complex person: He admitted he was a murdering bastard. He confessed he was so upset when he felt betrayed by Kiddo. He took on the job of single-dad. He didn't try to kill Kiddo after the first time, he just tried to stop her from killing him.
5) Quentin deleted one very good scene: I guessed the blood flowing was so "ridiculous" to even Quentin's standard. ;-) But on the first movie, he showed Lucy Liu with half of her brain exposed... ;-) What a sicko! ;-) (Great job, man!) And Thurman looked the best in that deleted scene. Wow!
6) It's about a love story: At the end, Kiddo and Bill still had feeling for each other.
7) Quentin admitted that the whole movie is almost all about Bill. His purpose is for the generation after Kung Fu will remember Carradine as Bill, not as Kwai Chang Caine.