I have the HBO version of this film on DVD (now out of print), so I can't comment on the transfer quality of this MGM/UA disk, but I can comment on the quality of the movie.
My Amazon review will be number 48 for this film, yet it still retains an average 5-star rating! That's remarkable, but not surpirsing. Simply put, this film has been my favorite since the first time I saw it, about 20 years ago. It has aired almost too much in recent years due to cable TV channels like TCM, but before that it was hard to find, for some reason not clear to me, so the film was a mystery to me. However, I had seen it listed as the Academy Award winner as Best Film for 1946, so I was curious about it. Based on thumbnail reviews I had read, I had some notion of what it might be like, mostly because of my experiences with other B&amp;W movies of the 1940s, but my expectations were dead wrong. This film is totally unique in its flavor and character, due in no small part to the talents and artistic vision of William Wyler, the great cast, the great story, and the timing of its theatrical release. Coming so quickly after the end of the War, the experiences of the characters on screen exactly duplicated the experiences of real Americans at that moment in our history. As another reviewer has speculated, it must have had an extremely powerful effect on the audiences of that day. It's still a memorable film-viewing experience now, 55 years later.
I won't get into the story line, because others have done that well enough. Actually, if you break the plot skeleton down into its elements it's probably not much different from other dramas of its type. What sets this movie miles apart is the very high quality of its production, and the way all of its elements merge together into a nearly perfect whole: First, the stirring music in the opening titles. Then the beautiful black and white photography, beginning with a lone soldier (Dana Andrews) looking already somewhat out of place in a bustling modern airport. The wonderful cross country ride in the nose of a B-17 as the three returning veterans get a bird's eye view of the land they fought to save (one of them losing his hands in the process). The taxi ride down Main Street in their home town -- the most compelling tidbit of nostalgia I've ever seen on film, and an honest peek into a bright, optimistic world that is long gone. Later, the difficulty in readjusting to civilian life, each of the three veterans with his own special problems. 
For older viewers, this film is an almost overwhelming nostalgia trip. For younger viewers, it's an engaging drama and a truthful history lesson about who we as Americans are and where we've come from. I was a small child when this was made, but I can still remember the flavor of those post-War years. No, it wasn't a perfect world. In some ways it was very much like the one we live in now, but unless you were there, you can't imagine the impact that humongous war had on people's lives for at least a decade afterwards. "The War," though in past tense, was involved in some way with almost everything you heard about. In fact, when Korea blew up in 1950, that conflict had a hard time being taken seriously because of the still very powerful lingering effects and memories of the recent "big one."
As I mentioned before, The Best Years of our Lives has only been readily available for viewing, either on TV or personal video, for the past ten or 15 years, and that's also true now of a lot of the great films (luckily for us!). This movie is an emotional one with an emotional appeal, so it's no surprise that it moves up and down in the "top 100" lists. A while back, in the early '90s, it was in the top five. Lately it's in the top 70 or so. The people who make these lists are fickle, and so the lists take you on a roller coaster ride over the years, but these things always seem to come full circle in due time.
I still remember, about ten years ago a top radio and TV talk show host announced that he had seen The Best Years of Our Lives the night before. In hushed, almost reverent tones he continued: "It is absolutely the greatest film I have ever seen!"
What can I add to that? I absolutely agree!