"A Perfect Murder" opened in theaters at the start of summer 1998. It did brisk business before being mowed down by the season's high profile fare. Actually, it held its own rather well, which proves once again that the public knows more than experts think it does. This is happy paradox, because much of the public's correct choices are due to the fact that it doesn't know everything. Critics do.
Many critics get religion, so to speak. Certain "truths" become holy to them. Since Alfred Hitchcock was 'The Master of Suspense', any movie that is a remake of one of his works is damned before the first foot of film is shot. These self-appointed guardians of cinema can become menacing in their anger and hostility. You'd think Hollywood executives were running around trying to knock off The Pope.
"A Perfect Murder" is based on the play "Dial M for Murder", which Hitchcock made into a film in the early 1950s, while under contract to Warner Brothers. I do not question his place in history, but not all of Hitchock's works carry equal weight. He did not like Frederick Knott's play. He reluctantly agreed to do the movie version in exchange for the studio's letting him do a pet project. As a result, they let him make the brilliant and successful "Rear Window", while he gave them the mediocre and successful "Dial M for Murder".
"A Perfect Murder" was based on a script the studio already owned. It happened to be the perfect vehicle for young Gwyneth Paltrow to play in opposite Michael Douglas. Director Andrew Davis had already proved his ability at rehashed suspense with Warner's film version of "The Fugitive". 
The movie suffers not in the least when compared to Hitch's version. If anything, it's a better picture. It obviously had a bigger budget. It's not nearly as mannered and static. The plot has been extensively updated, except for one key scene involving a telephone. Its failings are due to the same elements which bothered Hitch. The play is close to being a potboiler. Still, in the new version, the makers were smart enough to employ film techniques which tend to gloss over the script's weaknesses.
As Steven and Emily Taylor, Douglas and Paltrow are perfectly matched. Both have innocent looking facades, but these barely cover personalities underneath, which seem quite capable of cleverness and deception. Mr. Douglas's character may be more transparently criminal, but it is Paltrow's cultivated multi-lingual Emily which leaves one wondering. Is this woman a true victim, or is she simply the smartest player in this game?
Viggo Mortensen does well in the role of her lover, whom you decidedly would not want to bring home. Nice characters rarely last long in this type of story. The three main characters, under Billy August's direction, bring off a cat and mouse thriller, which is far more intense than the Hitchcock version. 
While the plot covers very familiar territory, the movie's elegant look, which is uniquely Hollywood, dominates the picture. Having little substance to work with, the director pulled out the stops on style. Perhaps he figured that, if we were going to travel a well worn path, we might as well go like we were in a Lexus, rather than a Subaru.