Full Disclosure: I don't know all that much about the difference between high-end and middle-of-the-road Blu-ray players, so maybe my ignorance is to blame.  In that case, take the review with a grain of salt.

Also, ***spoilers below***.

The Film: I don't know what people expect from movies - I don't know exactly how some people can think this is a 5 star movie while others think it's the worst thing ever made.  That just seems implausible.  But there's no accounting for taste, I suppose.  For me, this is what good action movies are like.  There are very few frills, the pace is a dead sprint after the initial set up, and there isn't anything in the story to get in the way of the action.  This is an action movie, right?  Maybe you want something different...in that case this movie isn't for you.  I don't think you're wrong.  I don't think you have bad taste.  I just like simple, straight forward action movies.  That's what Taken is, as far as I can tell.
Is Liam a good guy?  I don't know.  Not all movies are about good guys vs. bad guys.  Some movies are about a slightly-past-his-prime bad ass who wants his daughter back.  Oh, that's this movie.  Do you have to suspend disbelief throughout...yes...but...that's what movies are about, right?  By the end of the movie Liam's character is limping, stabbed, bruised, and exhausted.  Is it TOTALLY believable?  No, of course not.  If it were totally believable the movie would have ended with Liam heading home never to see his daughter again, probably only after the US negotiated for his release from French prison for running amok, etc.  Do you want to see that movie?  I don't.

So, the movie is simple and linear.  Ex-preventer bad ass Neeson goes and gets his daughter back leaving a trail of bodies in his wake.  Either that's your cup of tea or it isn't.

So, why the 4 star rating?  Well, the Blu-ray didn't want to cooperate with my player.  The super-impressive and action-packed menus apparently overwhelm my bottom of the heap Blu-ray player.  Call me crazy, but it seems like a blu-ray release should play on the lowest common denominator.  The movie looks and sounds great once my player grunts and slogs through the menus and gets started, but it took like 20 minutes - no kidding.  Someone please tell me that it's my player for sure and I will sort that out.  Until that time, though, I'm calling the blu-ray release a stinker.