I love Rachel Weisz, and yes, Tom Hiddleston.  However, this movie is dreadfully slow and confusing.  You could mute it and still understand as much with the volume on.
I compare it to another movie that people just raved about that sucked me in and immediately made me regret it - Melancholia.  Overbearing score, confusing dialog, confusing scene set up, etc.
What is the purpose of this movie?  Are we to learn a lesson that emotional immaturity and to-hell-with-anyone else really do matter, it's not just something our parents lie to us about?
You have a woman who is married to someone that on an intellectuality level, they're a great match.  But intellect doesn't keep your bed warm at night, even with someone in it.  Enter the dashing young man who has a passion for living life and fulfills and creates potential for what the woman finds lacking elsewhere, and doesn't stand still observing.  Unfortunately the man is stuck emotionally in a time of his life before he was forever mentally altered.  The woman is helplessly drawn to such passion and it consumes her, thus destroying her in the process as she herself neither understands nor has the ability to sustain it on her own.  The true lesson of this film, from what I was able to glean from it, is learning that you cannot enter into a relationship hoping that you can harness and tame the other participant's life to form it more like your own, or expect them to uphold the entire emotional foundation.  A single act of emotional inexperience destroys everything this woman has built her new life on by proving to her lover that he is incapable of giving her exactly what she wants and needs.
Exit a husband who is clearly in love with his wife enough to let her go.
You want to take this woman by the shoulders and either shake her into her senses and slap her if needed.  Men are not objects to be played with as if they didn't have emotional needs as well and serve as robots to fulfill our ideals.  That made sense with Freddie yelling  "I can't always be Romeo!"

I strongly disagree that this is the "role of a lifetime" for Weisz.  In all honesty I liked her much more in the "Mummy" franchise.  It was a great opportunity to see a broader range from Hiddleston beyond a comic book villain and limited smaller roles, but his career is only beginning to take off and I'm sure we'll see his skills showcased better elsewhere.  I feel for Simon Russel Beale because this character is so very limited that it only serves in portraying the faults of someone else that you don't even know who he is!

This is now three "artsy" movies in a year that did not live up to their hype.