It would seem that 1959's ANATOMY OF A MURDER was the first film to break the Hollywood "production code" in terms of using sexual terminology on screen.  Watching the movie makes one begin to understand how Hitchcock's PSYCHO happened a year later.  Otto Preminger (whose movie about drug abuse, THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN ARM, had challenged the code in 1955) in ANATOMY OF A MURDER tells the story of lately unsuccessful bachelor lawyer Paul Biegler, who takes up the task of defending young Army Lieutenant Manion, who murdered his wife's rapist.  As Biegler, who though easygoing (he loves jazz) is no fool, James Stewart gives an intense performance.  The hard-boiled reporter of CALL NORTHSIDE 777 is there in his characterization, as is the Jefferson Smith (of MR. SMITH GOES TO WASHINGTON)-type idealist.  As Laura Manion, Lee Remick is perfect, providing just the right amount of ambiguity (did this "voluptuous" woman subtly lead her rapist on?  Is her marriage really so happy?) to make her character as fascinating as is Stewart's.  Likewise, Ben Gazzara's Manion is hardly a sympathetic convict:  he may have been justified in his crime, but he may also be a wife-beater.  Riveting performances are given by George C. Scott as the prosecuting attorney, Claude Dancer, and Murray Hamilton as a witness for the prosecution.  Just as his surname suggests, the big-city lawyer "dances" around the issues, rarely posing direct questions - yet he is so suave, dignified, and (at first) deferential in his manner that one scarcely notices how devious he is; his strength lies in this.  Hamilton stands out as the murder victim's friend, who tries to save his memory but who withers in the face of Biegler's merciless questions.  And this realist film contains two performances by non-actors:  McCarthy era attorney Joseph N. Welch is delightfully natural as the judge; Duke Ellington, who wrote the movie's score, has a cameo as Biegler's jazz musician pal.  Some may find Ellington's jazz score wrong for a small-town courtroom drama, but I think it appropriate on two counts.  First, it is motivated by the protagonist's love of jazz, and second, it fits the sophisticated nature of the film's subject matter.  To sum up:  both as a daring `50's movie and as a standard-setter in edge-of-your-seat courtroom drama, ANATOMY OF A MURDER is essential viewing.