I have watched this movie twice now so that I am ready for a review. I decided that since this movie is based on an actual historical event, I should review it both on the level of entertainment/story telling as well as historical accuracy.

ENTERTAINMENT VALUE:

This is the area where I give the movie its lowest review. Basically, this movie sucked! The love story (which is obviously used to develop the bridge between the Mormons and the wagon train) felt very forced and lacked that chemistry to make it believable. Basically, it felt like the love story was there for the sake of there being a love story. Jon Voight's character was beyond ridiculous. In Jon Voight's attempts to come off as a religious fanatic, he feels more like an insane man who makes schizophrenics seem normal. People who commit violence in the name of their religion are very angry people, but Voight just seems to be a mixture of a drug addict combined with a helping of the local village idiot. The movie seems to love painting this black and white picture of the wagon train people of being these warm loving, good Christian folk and the Mormons as being blood thirsty and demonically possessed society. In short, the characters lack dimension and credibility and the love story could have been done much better, by someone else.

HISTORICAL VALUE:

While most movies take historical licenses to make a movie entertaining, and this movie is no exception, it did do a much better job at portraying history than most historical narratives. Granted, the wagon train did not spend a week near Ceder Falls before the first attack, but the attacks and the final massacre were accurately portrayed. The sermons given by Brigham Young (Terrance Stamp) were word for word exact with the real sermons given prior to Mountain Meadows Massacre. Granted, Brigham Young did not have a British accent and Mormons were not actually killing each other to atone for their sins (probably added that to project Mormons as blood-thirsty demonic people), but there really was a tension between Mormons and outsiders and their was a growing amount of fear and resentment to the US Government. Mormons were really making an oath at this time to avenge the blood of Joseph Smith when the opportunity presented itself, giving the conditions necessary to start something as tragic as Mountain Meadows Massacre.