A classic film genre that hasn't seen much action in the past few decades is the heist film. The re-imagining of OCEAN'S 11 did a nice job as did the re-imagining of THE ITALIAN JOB. Unfortunately, even those both of those movies had some great elements, neither one was original enough to even come up with their own title.

The original THE ITALIAN JOB, on the other hand, was made during an era when movies still reeked of originality.  In the film, Charlie Croker (Michael Caine) is released from prison after having served his time. He receives an interesting message from a close friend of his. His friend was in the process of steeling over 4 million dollars in gold right under the noses of the Italian mafia. Unfortunately, the mafia found out about the gig and had him killed. Before he was killed, he had set a plan in motion so that Charlie could take over the operation.

Charlie agrees to do the job, but he needs some serious financing. So, Charlie breaks into the prison to visit Mr. Bridger (Noel Coward), one of the most wealthy and well-respected crooks in England. At first Bridger dismisses Charlie's request and has some of his goons pay him a visit. Then he finds out exactly how much is at stake and who they will be stealing the money from. He has a change of heart and give Charlie the money he needs. From there it's one misadventure and adventure after another leading from England to Italy, past mafia goons, to the World Cup, and over some mountains involving $4 million dollars in gold bars and three red, white, and blue Mini-Coopers.

The casting and acting in THE ITALIAN JOB is some of the most original in Hollywood history. Michael Caine was not yet a huge star, but had just finished filming ALFIE when he was cast in THE ITALIAN JOB. His role as Charlie Croker made him an international movie sensation. Noel Coward was specially picked by director Peter Collinson because of Coward's generosity to Collinson in his youth. The studio had originally wanted Nicol Williamson, but Collinson swore by Coward. Coward's prescence as the lordly Mr. Bridger added a touch of class to the movie. Then there's Benny Hill, playing the large women loving Professor Simon Peach. The Benny Hill show had yet to be broadcast, but even in the supporting role of Professor Peach, Hill illustrates his connection to bawdiness.

The movie includes a famous song entitled "The Self Preservation Society" which, in large part because of this movie, has become a favorite song played in English football (soccer) matches. Besides that famous song, there's also several great pieces of dialogue including Michael Caine's line, "You're only supposed to blow the bloody doors off!" which was voted the most memorable film line of all time in a 2003 movie poll.

The final scene in THE ITALIAN JOB remains as one of the most memorable, yet most frustrating in all of movie history. The film ends without any resolve because the studio had hoped to make a sequel, but the sequel never came.  It's a dirty shame, really, because this is one movie that a sequel would have added something to the original.

The DVD includes the famous deleting "walzing Minis" scene, a commentary track, the original trailers, and a documentary. The commentary track is rather interesting to listen along with, but the documentary (chopped into three parts) is incredibly boring!