Ralph Bakshi's "The Lord of the Rings" is an animated film adaptation of the first half of Tolkien's classic fantasy trilogy by the same name.  Unfortunately, Bakshi never went on to produce another film covering the rest of Tolkien's story.
If you read the early reviews of this movie - which you can do by clicking on 'see all customer reviews' and selecting 'oldest first' - you'll see that they were nearly all enthusiastic.  Many of those early reviews specifically requested a DVD version.  Yet, now that the DVD version is available - in the original 2:1 wide screen format - the recent reviews are mixed.  What happened?
What happened was that Peter Jackson's modern, blockbuster film adaptations of the same story came out.  Jackson's films cover the entirity of Tolkien's trilogy, with a big budget that permitted the use of the best in live action and modern computer graphics animation.  This 1978 Bakshi film, with a fraction of the budget and using now dated technology, looks primitive by comparison.
And yet, this Bakshi version has many charms, especially for lovers of Tolkien's books.  Bakshi better captures the spirit of Tolkien's work, remaining true to the basic story and making good use of Tolkien's timeless prose.  Unlike Jackson, Bakshi does not take liberties with characterization: he retains Tolkien's portrayal of Boromir's ambiguous character without turning him into a simplistic bad guy; he doesn't change Saruman from a would be rival of the Dark Lord into a simple minion; he brings out Theoden's underlying nobility.  The only real problem is the abrupt ending of the story - and that's only an issue because Bakshi never went on to create a sequel.
If you do want something with modern, big budget production values, you'll probably prefer Jackson's version.  If you've already seen Jackson's films and are looking for more of the same, you won't find it here.
If, on the other hand, you're more interested in a movie that's true to the spirit of Tolkien's classic masterpiece - and if you'll be happy with animation techniques with a certain quaint charm, and with a movie that covers only the first half of Tolkien's story - this DVD is for you.