Highlander was a wonderful film. What other movie makes you hope that some day an insane Russian berserker will come and stick a broadsword through your stomach so that just maybe you too can live forever. (Ok, maybe I was just a weird kid). 
The thing with Hollywood is, there are executives out there who see a successful film and then think "I bet people would love to see a sequel!" I can see following this flawed logic once, but three times? The Highlander sequels are so bad that each refuses to acknowledge the existence of its predecessors. 
Highlander: Endgame is the latest in this series. I was kind of weary of going to see this film from the first commercial, because the trailer appears to give away the entire plot. That's right, the trailer basically consists of Conner and Duncan sitting near a magical portal discussing the plot of the movie and giving away the climax. I'm not going to say it here, because I don't want to "ruin the surprise" but if you do decide to rent the film, please be very careful not to read the front cover, because there are major plot spoilers right there on the box. Anyway, what's worse is the scene from the trailer isn't even in the film. Someone in the Buena Vista/Mirimax/Mandalay brain trust actually decided that the movie wasn't exciting enough to make a commercial so they filmed a special commercial unrelated to the rest of the movie with the sole exception of ruining the film for anyone (like myself) who might be foolish enough to watch it. 
What does this film accomplish? Well, speaking as a guy, co-starlet Lisa Barbuscia is extremely easy on the eyes. And since "Highlander" is actually pig-latin for "testosterone fest" we have thrown in a sometimes bare-chested Adrian Paul for the ladies. The film has a decent one-liner here or there that managed to make me laugh, and there was at least some attempt to connect the film to the first Highlander as well as the television series. (Films 2 and 3 are completely ignored). The set and costumes are pretty. Not a masterpiece worthy of academy awards, but they are nice to look at. 
Where does the film fail? Well, for starters, the ending is immediately obvious the second you pick up the box. The special effects are somewhat mediocre even for a television show (exactly where did that $15million budget go?). The story is less than engaging. Despite numerous cutaway scenes to remind us that this is a sequel to both the first film and the TV show, the film conveniently ignores the entire second half of the first movie! Finally, Adrian Paul shows the emotional range of... well... Adrian Paul. 
I can't see recommending this to anyone who isn't a hardcore Highlander fan (and if you are, you've probably already seen it, and nothing I can say will matter). If you're a casual fan, you can probably let this one go by. I wish I could give a film a rating of 1.5. I can't see my way fit to giving it a 1, because it did have some redeeming qualities, and most importantly, no one ever uttered the words "Planet Zeist."