Full Metal Alchemist the Movie picks up a few years after where the series left off. With the two brothers seperated by a rift in two worlds (with Ed being transported into one that looks much like our own. Things aren't going too well for him. However because it would be boring to see his character moping the whole time, stuff happens.

The plot is crazy and doesn't make a whole lot of sense (which isn't helped by the fact that you need to have seen a 51 episode series to understand the events of this movie) but it's entertaining. There's something about the Nazis in here and how a woman who works for them is trying to open up a gate to Ed's world through Alchemy, but how Alchemy works in a world where it's not supposed to is never explained (for the same reason that Ed can clap his hands and make things appear while everyone else has to draw up elaborate chalk diagrams I suppose.)

Anyway things start happening. People in metal suits invade Ed's world in giant flying "Alchemy" machines while the crazy woman screams about how she has magical powers now. In the end however everything works out okay. Oh, aside from the fact that Ed's dad is now dead and that the brothers are trapped in a world away from everyone they ever knew. And there's this gypsy girl who lives with them. Yeah, I dunno what that's about.

FMA The Movie is well animated, and ends on what they try to convince you is a 'happy' note, but considering all the plot holes that this movie has it doesn't really deserve to be seen as the end of the series. Also the villains are given absolutly no motive. Why that is I don't know, but I can only think that perhaps the production studio was biting off more than they could chew here and opted to go with a visual over story approach. The whole production feels rather unfufilling though, and we're never given any reason to believe that this is actually a happy ending except for the fact that the two main characters, the Elric brothers, are smiling at the end.

In a sentence, the FMA movie is only for great fans of the series who will overlook the subpar writing in the movie and enjoy the visuals. I still have no idea what the Nazi party was trying to invade this other world for. And who the heck was the crazy woman? Too many questions remain unanswered.