Mallrats was actually my introduction into the world of "Kevin Smith".  Flicking through cable channels one day, I stumbled across this flick and have been a devoted fan ever since!
Since becoming more knowledgable in Kevin Smith films, To this day I cannot see why this film did so badly and how people can sit there and blast it.
As most people agree, the dialogue plays a decent part on why Smith films are so fantastic and fun, and this was the first thing that grabbed my attention.  As mentioned, when I stumbled across Mallrats on Cable, it was almost the end of the film at the Game Show segment.  To have a chick insinuating having sex as a question, and having Brodie (God bless Jason Lee!) scream out "Oh, you mean like...!", I was hooked.  Thankfully, as cable is infamous for doing, Mallrats got multiple re-runs and the next day I caught the flick in full.
Onto the DVD Itself, any DVD of a great film such as Mallrats deserves purchasing.  I mean, there is no other way, bar stealing a film reel yourself, to get the fantastic picture quality and sound, and more importantly, which you can't get too many places, BONUS FEATURES!  And for this DVD to be advertised as having "Over 1 hour of Deleted Scenes", it makes any fan salivate from the mouth.  Whilst I know many film purists who state "Deleted Scenes are deleted for a reason" (!), any true fan of a film wants to see scenes that the director intended to include but was prevented from doing so due to film politics, irritating production companies or simply time management.
The real gem on this disc however has to be the Audio Commentary.  By the way, this was the first Audio Commentary I ever viewed with "Video Hijinks"; IE:  when the mallrats logo appears, press the select button on your remote to change the screen to a 'live' shot of the guys in the Audio Commentary booth interacting with each other.  It was great to see all the guys together.  Smith, Mewes, good ol' Ben Affleck (Who by the time I saw Mallrats had become 'all that and a bag of potato chips' through his post-Mallrats flicks), as well as "Chasing Amy's Jason Lee" (A referral poor old J.L. will probably take to the grave) all work great together, feeding of what each other says to make a very intertaining and worthwhile DVD.  In fact, People I know that HATE Mallrats (I can't see how the could) have bought the DVD primarily for the Commentaries and Extra Features.  One mate I know only liked Clerks and Chasing Amy, but owns every Kevin Smith DVD on the market!
Another Gem has to be the "Easter Egg" on the Mallrats DVD.  For those DVD-Illiterate people out there, an Easter Egg is a 'hidden bonus' but in most cases, these aren't hidden very well.  To access it, move your cursor onto the Robot's Eyes at the Mallrats Menu and press select (It is either the Main Menu or the Bonus Features Menu).  Rather humerous little addition by Kevin Smith.  (However, no Kevin Smith inserts come close to the great one he did for the Criterion Chasing Amy Disc).
...Personally, Mallrats is my favourite Smith film as yet and Brodie Rulz!