'The Vanishing' reminds me of the  Woody Allen film 'Match Point' which I also watched recently, in that they're both thrillers which approach their subject matter in a very flat, realistic and non-sensationalistic manner.  Creating outlandish criminals and schemes and rushing over them so that we don't notice how absurd they are is the standard thriller formula.  These films, however, take relatively simple and believable acts of violence and examine them in depth.  In a sense, they're the opposite of thrillers, slow and deliberate, all building up to a finale which proves to be surprisingly affecting, and certainly more affecting than the traditional thriller climax.  Unlike most people here, I won't tell you this method is necessarily better or smarter.  They both can work very well, and  `The Vanishing' does this more methodical approach quite well.

The film opens by introducing us to Rex and Saskia, a Dutch couple on vacation in France.  We get to know them fairly slowly, and they're obviously very affectionate, and prove to be a much more believable and appealing couple than you'd usually find in a film.  Before too long they stop at a gas station and Saskia heads off to get them something to drink.  She never comes back.  Rex becomes obsessed, and continually investigates, putting up posters and flyers.  He does this for three years, and he knows very well that Saskia must be dead.  Nevertheless, he can't move on; he must know what happened to her.

This isn't a single perspective film, however.  We are also introduced, quite early on, to Raymond Lemorne, the man who abducted Saskia.  He doesn't seem like the killer type, as he is an apparently quite balanced family man.  He seems to go through with the plan as an intellectual experiment more than any thing else.  Can he do it?  Can he get away with it?  Raymond is quite impressed with Rex's persistence, and he even contacts Rex via postcard, leading to their eventual meeting and the film's grimly inevitable climax.

Again, this film is very low-key.  There is almost no on-screen violence, to my recollection, and not even that much strong emotion or yelling.  They all almost always manage to keep a lid on it.  Sluizer shot the film in a very straight forward manner.  He rarely makes any sort of comment with the camera, but simply records what's going on.  It doesn't have a conventional plot arc either, no traditional rising action or raising of the stakes or what have you.  It's an everyday life sort of approach, an approach which refuses to shape the story into a standard movie plot form.  Nevertheless, it draws you in, making you *need* to know what happened, just as Rex does.

This film's greatest supporters love to tell you how intelligent this movie is, but I'm not sure if I really buy that argument.  It's not a dumb movie, certainly, but there really isn't all that much to it from an intellectual standpoint.  It touches on themes of predestination and obsession and so on, but that's nothing particularly new or remarkable in this way.  It does require patience and is just different from most films, which will doubtless throw some dullards, but while a capacity for patience and a taste for the different tend to go hand in hand with intelligence they really aren't the same thing.  This is all to say, I think stupid people will tend not to like this movie, but not because they don't understand it.  It's just not their thing.

`The Vanishing' is cleverly structured, though, shifting perspectives, first showing us the crime from Rex's perspective, then from Raymond's, slowly revealing information as the film goes on.  However, I think it's a bit too drawn out in the middle, showing Raymond's contemplation of Rex and Rex's endless attempts to solve the crime for a bit too long.  Beyond this, Rex's confrontation with Raymond isn't as interesting as it might have been.  By this point we've learned almost everything there is to know, so some of it proves a bit reiterative.  Still, the ending packs a punch, and is doubtless made more effective by the occasional slight dullness of the other parts of the film.

The performances are surprisingly good for a film this cheap.  As mentioned before, Saskia and Rex are very likable, not a movie couple at all.  Gene Bervoet's performance as Rex is probably the key to the film.  If you don't sympathize with him there isn't much to pull you  into the film emotionally. (I did, and so I was.)  Donnadieu's Raymond is a psycho like few others I've seen on a film.  He's an intellectual villain, which isn't rare, but he's different because his intellectualism isn't a cover for a madness lying underneath.  He's just so coldly logical and detached, a confessed sociopath, that madness doesn't even describe his condition.  He's barely even human.

Hmm, guess that's it.  Again, I don't think this is quite the masterpiece that some do.  It's still a bit slow and dry at times, but the characters are intriguing enough and the structuring clever enough to carry it.  (And, again, the ending is quite good.)  Definitely worth a look if you want to see a different sort of thriller.

Grade: B