This DVD is a few years old, but it continues to hold up in its' quality of research and care taken to produce a cohesive, non-exploitive look at the argument of whether we're alone, or not. I have been on a DVD/CD replacing binge following an apartment flooding, and although it took me a couple of weeks to get around to watching this after it arrived, I did get to watch it this week, and I still feel that it is one of the best documentaries offered on UFOlogy. Firstly, and as silly as it seems, the doc sets the right mood by having Peter Coyote narrate; I have seen some damned good documentaries before that were basically ruined by who the producers got to do over-voice, narration, etc. Mr. Coyote delivers his words with just enough urgency to make you sit up and pay attention to what he is offering; there's no "And then, that's when this normal Kansas farmer looked up and saw an eighteen orb saucer hovering above his chicken coop!" There's no flowery prose and drama, just plain facts - and plenty of them. I like this documentary because it uses good, clear video when showing caught-on-film instances of UFOs; I also appreciated that interviewed witnesses ranged from, yes, normal people (none of whom, surely to our government's disappointment, carried on in front of the camera by screeching, "I seen me a flyin' saucer!") to former politicians (possibly former because of their belief in UFOs and wanting sightings to be researched) to former astronauts (Gordon Cooper) to President Jimmy Carter. When Gordon Cooper is relating his experience, and how he turned the film over to his superiors (you'll have to watch it to find out the whole story), and then, well, golly gee, what a surprise, the film took a walk and that was that, you can hear the barely contained anger in Mr. Cooper's voice - and the betrayal he felt. In the last few years, yes, there has been such astonishing strides in CGI, photography, film and so forth that when what we see on Youtube is out of the norm to the slightest degree, we immediately react with  "It's been doctored"...but there are things on film that this dvd shows that cannot be that easily dismissed. And as I said, the witnesses chosen to appear in the doc make all the difference - you watch and listen to these people, and without fail, you believe that they believe what they're saying. Mr. Cooper's testimony affected me to such a degree that I did a little bit of homework on him, and discovered that he passed away shortly after this documentary was made. Sooo, somewhere, Gordon Cooper knows for sure, now, and there ain't a damned thing the goverment can do about it. A great DVD!