Wow! Having watched only the first two DVD's of Season 1 so far over the past week, I had to stop by here and mention how thrilling it is to see The Partridge Family again! Sure, we all know the show itself was great. But this DVD set also comes loaded with some great extra features. For the price I just don't see how any Partridge Family fan could say no.

I don't remember The Partridge Family meaning so much to me when the show originally aired, when I was quite young. Except that I'm pretty sure Susan Dey was my first crush (and I instantly remembered why while watching episode one!).

There is so much I'd forgotten about this show--Danny's precociousness, Mr. Kinkaid's furrowed brow, that crazy bus, the hilariously awful lip-synching, and something I never noticed when I was just a kid: Shirley Jones looks pretty fine in a mini-skirt!

And of course, when the show originally aired, I didn't realize who guest stars like Farrah Fawcet, Jaclyn Smith, and Mark Hamill were (or would later become, to be precise). What a great surprise to see these up-and-coming stars, along with established greats like Ray Bolger (The Wizard of Oz's "Scarecrow") and Jackie Coogan (The Addam's Family's "Uncle Fester").

The special features are a mixed bag. There's an excellent documentary describing how the show came to be, including recent interviews with some cast members. There's also a brief documentary showing the men and women who actually made the music. I've always thought David Cassidy had a fabulous voice, so it was funny to learn that no one even bothered to hear him sing before he was cast as Keith Partridge. Some episodes have commentaries by Danny Bonneduce and Shirley Jones that, while fairly short of talk and inside information, are still a gas to listen to. There's also a sampler CD of four classic Partridge Family songs. It's a rather blatant marketing tool for the greatest hits CD, but I already have the CD, so it was a genuine bonus for me.

Overall, this is just plain a fun ride. In my opinion, The Partridge Family was superior to The Brady Bunch because it was always upbeat (The Brady's could get so depressing with their guilt and shame sometimes). Like the "Cheers" theme song, the Partridge Family theme really sums up what the show was all about: Come On, Get Happy!

The only negative thing I'd say is shame, Shame, SHAME on Sony for replacing the original ding-a-ling-a-ling episode ending with their own lame logo and "music". That sound was completely associated with this show in my mind after so many viewings as a kid, and Sony's idiotic decision to replace it may ruin that memory for me forever. Why can't these arrogant corporations leave the classics alone? I can only hope Sony will restore the original ding-a-ling thing in upcoming season sets.