Actually, I'm only giving 2 and a half stars

I don't usually review stuff like this.... I'm just an ignorant musician, not an astrophysicist. But then again, neither is Dan Aykroyd.

As Dan himself said, he is an entertainer and the purpose of this documentary is to entertain.... OK, it WAS entertaining.

But I doubt that I'm any closer to believing ALL the hoopla about UFOs coming to earth than I was before. Neither do I buy (whole hog) into every account, photograph or rumor regarding abductions, contacts etc.... However, I do believe that there could easily be people from other planets who may have visited here... I also believe in the possibility that SOME people's abduction accounts might actually be true.

There's just so much rabidity generated from the subject that it invites every fame seeker, money grubber and certified whacko to crawl out of the woodwork each time the subject gets some fresh notoriety.... For example, idiots like Rael who claim extraterrestrial origins in order to attract followers to their stupidass, mind numbed cults. Does any right thinker on the planet follow blindly behind these morons....? Hell no.... But I digress....

I disgaree with producer/author/director David Sereda's assertion that having a conversation about UFOs with Dan Aykroyd is anything at all like speaking with Albert bloody Einstein.... This star struck little twit needs to remain BEHIND the camera. Every time he opens his mouth something really frickin' stupid comes out of it.....

But all things considered, some of the photo and film work was entertaining..... Some of the interviews were thought provoking... The Astronaut Cooper stuff was quite revealing... particularly the fact that Cooper himself spoke as if he actually IS being controlled by aliens....No kiddin'...It's spooky.

All in all the DVD is entertaining if you can get past all the aforementioned silliness....

In all honesty, I must admit that the film does make a stronger statement for the existence of real space invaders than any other film of it's kind that I've seen....and Aykroyd himself is by no means a prophet of an "all aliens are our friends" philosophy.... He raises the "benevolent vs: malevolent" issue with great frequency...and his "Men in Black" account is really cool....

What the hell, if yer fascinated with all this UFO stuff, buy the DVD... You'll probably be entertained by it and ya may even learn something. It's worth seeing for anyone who has any kind of curiousity on the subject.....

Timothy A Di Pietro
Certified Django Junkie