It's easy to slap 5 stars on a Combat review, but one must be careful and realize that this series was 5 seasons long with over 150 total episodes...In fact, if I could give this first  season 3 1/2 stars I would....the show was trying to find its' bearings in this first season, and would face many bumps as directors and writers came and went....these are valuable episodes though in setting up what will become the best television series which covered the WWII theater....
Some of the Highlights:
Lost Sheep Lost Shepherd....Jeffery Hunter is the guest star as a priest who fell from grace and is now a tanker...when he blows up the church steeple, you cannot help but think of his role in King of Kings.
Forgotten Front...guest star Albert Paulsen (who recently passed away) portrays a very sympathetic German who is captured by Saunders...the writers had to add the final scene between Caje and Saunders because the producers did not like the final outcome of Paulsen's character...
Cat and Mouse...a very exciting and tense story with Albert Salmi as a Seargent equal to Saunders in grit and determination.
Reunion....what does one do, when you find out your long lost father is a collaborator for the Germans?
The Medal....Frank Gorshin reluctantly, then aggressively, takes credit for a heroic act that he didn't do...
No Time for Pity....one of the many episodes which shows the war's effect on children....
The Sniper....German sniper picks off US soldiers in French town.
No Trumpets No Drums...Caje suffers through a period of angst after killing a little girl's father....
These epsisodes, and others are the high points of the first season...but since the characters have not yet fully evolved, there are some episodes that they are secondary to, at times, rather mundane characters:
Any Second Now....Hanley is caught under some rubble in a church with an unexploded bomb for company...a rather boring subplot between the British demo man and his love interest...
Missing in Action....Howard Duff as a downed pilot is again center stage to a romantic plot line
The Chateau...Doc #1 is given the star treatment in this episode..the problem is that he is not a very good actor
The Prisoner....Shecky Greene's comedic talents are on display but the episode is too "Hogans Heroes-ish" to be any good...
The Walking Wounded...this time we have too much Gary Merrill..
Off Limits....William Windom and Peggy Ann Garner are lovers and guess what?...Garner is married to one of Saunders men!...yawn
Well, I could go on but I will spare you....as I said, for the first season, there are highs and lows, but they do set up what is to come, and if you have some patience, there are many rewards in this first season....
So by all means, pick up this first season because the price is right and there is much to enjoy....as the seasons progressed, the show just got better, culminating in the 2 part masterpiece, "Hills are for Heroes" from season 4....
Recommended with some reservations....