Two of my favorite Actors, Morgan Freeman as a retired auto Mechanic and Jack Nicholson get acquainted as terminantly ill cancer patients! The story is the result of Morgan (Charles Chambers) remembering The BUCKET LIST Assignment from his Philosophy Teacher who asked his students to make a list of the things which they would try to accomplish before he "Kicked The Bucket."

When Edward Cole found the list begun by his roommate Charles Chambers, they decided that was the best way they could spend their last days! So both asked their Doctors to check them out of their room and their treatment. Since Edward Cole was a wealthy Fortune 500 mogul who owned an interest in hospitals, they chose to attempt their list of things they had never done before. First they wanted to sky dive out of a large plane. They did this and it was a huge thrill! Next they visited Monte Carlo, where they downed great amounts of Caviar and hit the tables. They tore up the road in two supercharged cars in reckless  abandon at great speeds and enormous risks! They visited Africa where they included the beautiful scenery and animals of a Safari! From there they saw the great Egyptian Pyramids. They stayed in famous Hotels in the exotic cities of China & France, etc.

When they returned home, they each celebrated! Edward meeting with his large board of Associates & Directors after he made a difficult, surprise visit, taking flowers to his only estranged daughter after years of silence! Charles met his whole family for a big joint dinner with all of his children & grandchildren!

The crowning scene of the whole story was the celebration of the Memorial Service of Charles' death, where Ed Cole gave the most touching Eulogy ever heard and felt for the man he only had known a few years, yet had given him new desires to stay alive!

Part of Ed & Charles personal touch were the stories they shared! One of the most enduring was the visit that Charles described to a friend after climbing his memorial trip to the top of an ancient Tibetian mountain where he had experienced the most profound silence, so that he felt he heard the Voice of God. The final scene of the Movie was the trip up to the top of that very mountain where he deposited the Urn of Charles' ashes.

An Amazing, Awesome, Magical story from two Giant Actors & Director, Rob Reiner!