"Happiness" is not a movie for everyone by any means. Personally I thought it was occasionally hilarious, brutally honest about the private lives of unhappy people, and frequently painful to watch. The director goes for maximum discomfort in many scenes which really make you squirm in your seat. If you consider yourself an optimist than this movie might seem stomach-turning and exaggerated and pointlessly misanthropic, and you might understandably despise it. I myself could definitely relate to the characters who are unable to escape the cycle of prolonged periods of self-loathing punctuated by moments of brief relief (although I have no desire to make obscene phone calls or prey on young boys).
There are four loosely related storylines in "Happiness". The most memorable one looks at a suburban dad who harbors secret fantasies about prepubescent boys. The striking thing is that the man is presented sympathetically -- he is sick, he knows he's sick, but he has nowhere to turn for help. Even though his actions are repugnant, I still ended up feeling sorry for the man himself. I thought the treatment of the issue was effective and not too apologetic for the man's proclivities; child abusers are rightly reviled by society, but the movie reminds you that the taboo is so strong that there is no place for potential offenders to turn. The focus with sex criminals is punishing them after the fact, but are there any outlets where such people can privately seek help before they succumb to their urges? If there aren't, perhaps there should be.
The other subplots follow a chronic masturbator, a down-on-her-luck woman who is mistreated throughout the movie in ways that straddle the knife-edge between cruelty and humor, and an older couple whose marraige is dissolving. Maybe it's just me, but I thought Ben Gazzara was scene-stealingly funny as the stoic retiree who just wants to be alone.
Anyway, this is a worthwhile movie to see if you are not automatically turned off by the inner lives of desperate people. The uncomfortable scenes force you to think about happiness itself: what is it, who deserves it, and how do I go about getting it anyway?