A great adventure/action/romance movie starring Harrison Ford and Anne Heche.  Ford and Heche are brought together early on when Ford, the owner/pilot of a air taxi company operating between islands, attempts to fly Heche to an island where she has a business appointment.  During their night flight  abrupt stormy weather destroys the aircraft's electronic and radio system and it forces Ford to alter his course.  Ultimately, he has to make an emergency landing on the shore of a little known uninhabited island.  The night landing is successful but it results in a damaged wheel gear which disables the airplane. After several personal conflicts among themselves and a brief contact with a small band of modern pirates, from whom they narrowly escape, Ford and Heche discover an old wrecked airplane that has usable floats.  Toward the end of the movie Ford and Heche unite their talents to repair the airplane and they barely manage to get it back into the air.  All this happens while the off-coast pirate ship crew tries to destroy them and the airplane with their boat-gun.  However, Ford was injured by an exploding shell in the process and loses blood quickly.  While he is flying and before passing out, he gives Heche some basic flying instructions and tells her how to find their way back to civilization.  Which she does.  The movie ends correctly but you need to see it to learn how it ends.

It may interest some to learn that Ford is a real pilot himself and he owns the same type of airplane, a Canada built DeHavilland DHC-2 Beaver (aka Army L-20), that was featured in the film. Those remarkable airplanes, many on floats, are still operating in Canada, Alaska, and elsewhere.  In 1987 that airplane design was recognized by the Canadian Engineering Board as one of the top ten achievements of the 20th century.  During an interview, a few years ago, Ford was asked to reveal his favorite sound.  He replied, "The sound of a radial engine".  Incidentally, that's the type of engine that the DHC-2 has.