Actually, that`s putting it mildly. It this DVD were simply a waste of time I`d still give it 2 stars. The problem being that the Wolverine vs. Hulk episode is also offensive to Marvel fans of every age (the critics who gave positive Amazon-ratings notwithstanding, apparently.) While certain events in Wolverine`s history are depicted (Wolverine`s debut in The Incredible Hulk 181, as well as elements of Barry Windsor Smith`s excellent Weapon X -storyline from Marvel Comics Presents), nothing in Hulk vs. Wolverine is presented in a compelling manner. Apart from the Hulk`s rescue of two innocent bystanders during his initial confrontation with the Weapon X -squad, neither of the two protagonists, arguably two of the most tragic and complex characters in Marvel-lore, are presented as heroic beings - the Hulk merely smashes and roars, while Wolverine merely slices and snarls his way through this ordeal of a movie.

The animation is fine, but the violence is horribly graphic, rendering this feature unsuitable for a younger audience, while older viewers should feel offended by the lack of a decent plot and the non-existent characterization. The villains of the piece are merely `edgy`, but there`s no backstory to make any of them interesting. In the comics, Deadpool is much more than simply a wisecracking, guns and knives -wielding mercenary. I`m not entirely sure of his backstory, but the man was horribly disfigured during an experiment, which led to him becoming slightly unhinged. Lady Deathstrike traded her humanity for cybertech enhancements in order to gain revenge on Wolverine, whose mere existence she believed brought shame on her family. It would have been so easy to add some emotional drive to the movie`s narrative and many battles by referencing or even depicting said events.

In conclusion, I`d like to state that the movie left me, a longtime reader of Marvel Comics, questioning the appeal of characters created for the purpose of generating a never-ending stream of violent imagery. But no, it`s the makers of this misguided movie that decided to desregard everything that makes Hulk and Wolverine timeless, compelling characters worthy of the huge following they have amassed in the years since their creation. They deserve better, as did this this movie`s audience.