Sad to say (although not unexpected) but the latest in the Hellraiser series is just plain boring.  The acting is fine, the directing is passable, the cinematography is middling but the story & pacing is pitiful.  As with the previous debacle "Hellraiser: Inferno", this film is plagued by too much exposition & not enough Pinhead.  It's similar to "Inferno" in that it's pretty much just a bland detective story with little of what made the initial films in the series so exciting.  I must admit the ending "twist" is mildly interesting but it take like eons to get to it despite the film's scant 85 minute running time.  Beyond the poor storyline I must take offense to the cinematography in that while it looks okay, it lacks the eye popping visuals of the past.  Where are the awesome set pieces, color schemes & general look of menace that graced the first few films?  I mean really...you have such an interesting palate to choose visuals from for a Hellraiser film & all you get here is a mostly straight-up, plain jane, vanilla shooting style.  Hellraiser should be exciting over the top crazy stuff & here it's just blah.  People return time & time again for the wild visuals & lots of cenebites.  With "Hellseeker" you get a little teaser here & there but then it's back to the lame-o storyline.  Nobody wants to see boring exposition.  We aren't here for "Citizen Kane II".  Get on with it & blow us away.  Make with the crazy Pinhead stuff & the fans will respond don'tcha know?  Why they insist on changing the formula is beyond me.  The fans are quickly dwindling for this once great series.  One last gripe...please oh please will someone stop with the "quick cut, teaser violence for 5 seconds...followed by the inevitable "Oh he was just dreaming & is now jarred out of the scene of terror while shaking his head in disbelief"" schtick???  WOW, has that been done to death or what?  It's just a cheap way to get out of explaining what just happened.  That way they can show anything on screen & never have to rationalize it in a sane manner.  What a cheap & hackneyed out for the scriptwriter (not to mention cliched beyond flogging a dead horse idea of originality).  Every time there is a violent scene, the guy "wakes up" out of it like we've seen in all 1000 Freddy, Jason & sad to say now Pinhead flicks.  If you guys do another film...PLEASE for the love of all things horror fans cherish...get crackin' with the visuals, show more of our beloved cenebites & quit trying to bore us with your detective stories.  I say...2 Stars for the few shining moments of Doug Bradley's "Pinhead" & zilch for the rest.