I'm writing this because too many reviewers are going crazy like The Heartbreak Kid was the worst movie ever made or something which is just ridiculous. Regarding 2007's comedies, Superbad and Knocked Up were both grossly overrated. They had about 20 minutes of funny parts each. It seemed like the producers just rushed them out the door without bothering to give them a couple of much needed rewrites and still the world has gone crazy over them. Personally, I laughed more consistently while watching The Heartbreak Kid. For my money, The 40 Year Old Virgin is the best comedy to have come out in the past three or four years as it is filled with laughs and has no long dry spells like Knocked Up, Superbad, and even The Heartbreak Kid to a lesser degree.

Does THK blaze new trails? No. Is it going to win Oscars or become a timeless classic? No. That said, it's got a lot of laughs and is definitely worth renting. I suspect it just became trendy to rag on it and now everybody's piling on. The same thing happened with The Cable Guy which is a great film, IMO. The Farrelly Brothers movies aren't all equal but they all have funny parts. If you liked Kingpin, Dumb and Dumber, There's Something About Mary, Me Myself and Irene, and Shallow Hal you should get a kick out of this one too, though you might not watch it repeatedly. If the other Farrelly Brothers movies gross you out or offend you with their utter disregard for political correctness, then steer clear. Frankly, I don't see how anyone can deny that the scenes were Lila shows her true colors as a sexually insatiable, tasteless halfwit with baggage galore are laugh out loud funny. Stiller's immigration troubles are great as well. Jerry Stiller wasn't given enough good lines to maximize his potential, which is unfortunate but certainly not a deal-breaker regarding the whole "to see or not to see" question. Also, I didn't find either of the leading ladies particularly fetching, though I did appreciate the cool, girl next door quailty of Miranda. I guess I'm just asking people who like Farrelly Bros. movies to see it for themselves and not believe the inordinately negative hype.