In these days of such overdone action movies like M:I-2, XXX, World is Not Enough, and Fast and the Furious, it's so refreshing to see an action movie that doesn't need CGI or overblown explosions every 5 seconds to make it exciting.
DeNiro, in his last great role, plays Sam, a mysterious ex-CIA agent (or so he says) who joins a group of mysterious international gunslingers to retrieve an equally mysterious briefcase for a mysterious boss.  Supported by an excellent supporting cast including Jean Reno and Sean Bean, these five mercenaries, or Ronin, literally wage a small war across southern France.  It's almost like an all-action interpretation of Reservoir Dogs- they are comlete strangers, they don't know who they're working for, and they are motivated only by money.
Along the way, there are twists and turns but unlike most movies, these twists are here for a reason.  They make sense and actually aid the story instead of bog it down.
So we have shady characters, none of whom are real nice angels, a great plot, and a brilliant set-up.  What about the action?  Well if you want to experience the most realistic shoot outs and car chases ever on film, then you'll be in heaven.  From the firefight/getaway under the bridge to the spectacular ambush in the city of Nice to the final harrowing car chase throughout Paris, every shot fired creates a hole in something, and every character actually aims to put down his opponent.  Amazingly, though these scenes are incredibly realistic, they are never boring.
Few action movies can qualify as brilliant, but Frankenheimer's Ronin surely does.  It's like no other action movie you've ever seen, and if Michael Bay and John Woo keep making movies, you probably never will for a long time.  Do yourself a favor and see this movie- it's intelligent and intense.
It's unforunate that Frankenheimer died recently, because if there's one movie that deserves a sequel, this is it; I'd love to see what happens to the survivors of this film.  Odds are that this will never happen.