I won't review story details from the film. The above reviewer has already done a fine job of that. I will give you my reactions.

I saw it Sunday night on TBN. I went into it knowing nothing of the movie or the novel on which it is based. I did turn on TBN knowing that they sometimes have interesting films on Sunday evening that are Biblically based. I confess, however, that I joined the film a little late, right when the character Nikki was sitting down to dinner in the restaurant with The Perfect Stranger.

At first I thought, "What is this? A guy introduces himself as Jesus." I was ready to be skeptical, but then that's how Nikki reacted, too. I kept watching and decided that this was a well-produced, well-acted something-- something that is often poorly done.

I found myself riding the roller coaster of emotions with Nikki. I loved her questions, I was saying out loud what I thought the answer might be. You may have seen me and thought I was watching my team play football with all the advice spoken out loud, the disappointments, the joys... the film swept me along like this.

One of my favorite scenes in the Gospel is the encounter Jesus has with the woman at the well. I was reminded of this encounter. Imagine a perfect stranger who knows you and your whole life... WHO IS HE???

I came away feeling like I understood Jesus better. I was struck by the intimate interweaving of three things: a) Nikki's unqualified love for her child; b) my own love for my children; and, of course, c) the Lord's love for each of us on a deep, personal level. My largest emotional response came when The Perfect Stranger asked Nikki if her child grew, fell in with a bad crowd, got high on drugs and killed someone-- if Nikki's child was slated for execution for her sins, wouldn't Nikki quickly offer herself in her daughter's stead? Of course she would. Of course I would, for my own child-- AND THAT IS WHAT GOD DID FOR US! He substituted Himself to suffer and die for what we deserve as punishment because He loves us that much! It all made sense.

This is one of the many truths that are arrived at in a logical, entertaining way. The film is entertaining on many levels AND it delivers truth to you in a way you can absorb, you can mull over, and with which you can identify.

No matter where you are in your walk with God; no matter if you are the most skeptical person in the world, but you find yourself reading this review, don't fail to purchase or rent this film. See it with friends. Give it to family members. The Perfect Stranger will give you lots to enjoy and the most momentous things to discuss.