I've been intrigued by "Westworld" since I first saw it many years ago, but I could never find it on home video. Stores tend to carry plenty of recent science fiction releases as well as  old, B-movie bargain titles, but "Westworld" seemed to have slipped through the cracks. It was therefore a nice surprise to finally find the DVD available on Amazon.com.

  If you've never seen "Westworld," you've probably seen works that have been influenced by it, including "The Terminator," "Jurassic Park," and even "The Simpsons" (the episode featuring "Itchy and Scratchy Land"). "Westworld" tells the story of a high-tech, adults-only amusement park where guests can explore expertly crafted re-creations of various historic periods (such as -- you guessed it -- the Wild West), which are populated by robots who look and act just like humans. The big draw is the realistic level of interaction that the robots have been programmed for. If a guest wants to have a shootout with a robot gunslinger, he can whip out his six-shooter and fire away... and he doesn't have to worry about losing, because the robots have been programmed to never harm the guests. What could possibly go wrong?

  Ah, but things do go wrong, of course, and this is where the excitement really begins. Yul Brynner's relentless, robotic gunslinger easily steals the show, though Richard Benjamin earns the viewer's sympathy as a first-time park visitor, just beginning to enjoy himself, who's suddenly forced into survival mode. The special effects are a bit dated, though it's wise to remember that this is a movie from the early 1970's that didn't have the nine-figure budget that has become the norm for today's sci-fi extravaganzas  (interestingly, "Westworld" actually includes one of the earliest uses of computer-generated imagery ever seen in a movie: pixelated "point of view" shots representing robotic vision). However, "Westworld's" effects are more than sufficient to effectively tell the story.

  The film, while only about 90 minutes long, takes its time to get going, and I think writer/director Michael Crichton could have shown us a little less of the human characters' adventures in Westworld before the machines went haywire (a slapstick, bottles-flying bar brawl which doesn't advance the plot is just one example of what could have been cut) and a little more of what happened afterwards. Also, it's best not to think too much about the details. For example, why are the guns loaded with real bullets? Even though it's explained that a sensor prevents the guests from shooting other humans, couldn't bullets easily go astray during a shootout? And wouldn't it be prohibitively expensive for the park to have to constantly repair all those shot-up robots?

  While certain plot points might seem a bit unrealistic, they do make for a more exciting movie (after all, if the guns were of the harmless "laser tag" variety, how threatening would that be?). If you can suspend disbelief, you'll find "Westworld" to be a truly fascinating film, a disturbing depiction of a futuristic "dream" vacation to the past that quickly becomes a living nightmare.