"Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets," the second installment from director Chris Columbus, continues right where the first left off.  Harry finds himself spending a miserable summer with his horrible Muggle relatives who alienate and neglect him.  Only when his best friend, Ron, comes and rescues him from his cell of a room do things start to improve.  But Harry has received a mysterious warning from a house-elf named Dobby: he will be in grave danger if he returns to Hogwarts.  With the help of Ron and Hermione, will Harry be able to save Hogwarts from a deadly evil?
Overall, "Chamber of Secrets" was very enjoyable.  The acting couldn't have been better.  Daniel Radcliffe nearly outdid himself this time around.  He is everything Harry should be and seems to pull it off effortlessly, quietly endearing the audience to him.  Rupert Grint is fabulous as well.  His facial expressions and voice inflections always find a way to make me smile.  Kenneth Branagh (who I haven't been fond of in other roles) is obnoxiously appealing as the flamboyant Professor Gilderoy Lockhart, and Robbie Coltrane (Hagrid) and Alan Rickman (Severus Snape) shine in their roles as perfectly as they did in "Sorcerer's Stone."  The late Richard Harris gives a memorable and touching performance as Headmaster Albus Dumbledore.
The special effects were stunning.  From the Whomping Willow to the quidditch match to Aragog's spidery lair to the final confrontation in the Chamber of Secrets, everything (particularly the quidditch match) looked thoroughly real and was all I could have hoped for it to have been.
It was a lot of fun seeing some of my favorite scenes brought to life.  I absolutely loved the polyjuice potion part (it was so funny!), Harry's stay at the Burrow (although I wish that part could have been longer), and Ron, Fred, and George's flying car rescue of Harry.
However, there were some aspects of the movie that I found less appealing.  Be forewarned, there are more differences from the book in this movie than the first.  Most of them don't really get in the way of the story, but a few I found to be personally annoying (and won't mention them here for fear of spoilage).
"Chamber of Secrets," like every movie based on a book, loses something in the translation from page to reel, but Chris Columbus has succeeded once again in creating a spectacular representation of the magical world that we Muggles have come to love.
Bottom Line:  Not as good as the first movie but still a must-see for HP fans.  The brilliant acting makes up for most plot changes.