I am in total awe of this amazing series, and I wonder both how it ever got made considering it has none of the typical elements of American media/TV and why there is so little commentary on it.

The plot revolves around Paul Weston a aging middle aged psychoanalyst and his patients, but the hook is that on Friday Paul himself becomes the patient.

This is quite simply brilliant and stands along in its fearless exploration of human beings and their fears and behaviors.

For the week Weston is God, he holds court and controls all that goes on ... well, mostly, in the domain of his analytic office where he is cool, collected, BUT HUMAN in his efforts to help his patients, but slowly we see that Paul is human, and has frailties and faults and does not always help people, and in fact even Paul has doubts and fears if he does the right thing or not and if he has made a difference.

In this cool controlled environment and life we see behind the facade the almost animalistic drives and irrational fears and needs that drive people. For example at one point one of Dr. Weston's patients bursts in on his in his private life with what appears to be a major breakdown, but we see how infantile this patient bahaves when he is unable to control his Dr. which seems to be his biggest need. Then the next day we see Pau himself do a very similar thing to his doctor and not be able to see the parallel at all.

I wish I lived in the kind of country where people would watch and discuss programs like "In Treatement" instead of the mindless distracting idiocy of most average TV that is geared towards just taking people's minds off of their own inner world and what is going on with them, but until then I guess I'll have to be satisfied by appreciating the brilliance of this TV series and discussing it with a few friends and the people who comment on the Internet about such things.

Not for everyone, but for those who find this kind of material interesting, this is a perfect 5/5 stars.

A related book, that I have found interesting is Daniel Goleman's "Vital Lies, Simple Truths" which also deals, but as a non-fiction book about need for people to have defense mechanisms and how they work. I think this program and this book can be an eye-opening experience for anyone interested.