I whole heartedly agree with Michael K. Beusch's review.  There are only two TV shows I made efforts to record on VCR to watch later: Mission Impossible and America's Funniest Home Videos.

The movie Mission Impossible was a major let down, I really really disliked it and gave the disk away; no place for it in my collection. Where was the team work?  Where was the awesome plot?  Why did it seem the movie was just an excuse to make one person look cool?

Why did it take so long for this awesome TV show to be released on DVD?  It should have been one of the first!  I can't believe all the junk TV shows that have been compiled on DVD but no MI!

The TV series was about teamwork, and, one of the best methods for "winning": using the enemies weaknesses against them.  This strategy seems totally lost today; today it's just more "might makes right"...use bigger bombs and guns than the bad guys, no effort to understand the bad guys' perspectives and what makes them tick.  But I guess I should add that I'm not much of a movie goer or TV watcher any more...go Internet!  Too many TV shows today are mainly about close-ups on people's faces, boring.

I found very few holes in the plots that seemed illogical, I admit that the disguises or vocal impersonations were sometimes "too real" but maybe I could overlook it due to when I grew up. I only saw the shows as re-runs decades later, and I think we all know (or at least pretend to know) how much technology, surgery, etc... has advanced since the 1960's, as well as the fact impersonations (via comedy) are much more prevalent these days.

I never felt sorry for the "bad guys", since the show's authors usually made it clear they were up to no good, doing things to others they wouldn't want done to themselves, and like I said, the Mission Impossible team usually used the bad guy's weaknesses against him, sometimes directly, sometimes via his cronies.  So they were just accelerating his downfall.

It's been too many years since I dusted off a VHS tape to watch a show, but I HUGELY look forward to collecting/watching every show they made.  I just hope they release all of them and not a chopped up "best of", like some music band trying to stretch the one good album they made across 5 or 6 "greatest hits" albums.  I'm not sure I've seen every episode, but I never saw one I didn't like.