A pivotal moment in the history of the world has been captured by writer/director Emilio Estevez in his brilliant film, "Bobby," a chronicle of the day Senator and Presidential hopeful Robert F. Kennedy was murdered in the kitchen of the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles in June, 1968.

On June 6, 1968, when RFK died, the hope of a nation died along with him.  It was the day that began a downward spiral of true democracy in the United States of America, which has taken us, finally, as a country, into the darkness of corporate corruption and political despotism.

Which is why this film is so important.

With this film, Estevez, rather than put together just another filmed biography, has reignited the light that was Bobby Kennedy.  Rather than throw facts, figures and debate at you, he instead resurrects the spirit of the man, and in doing so captures the very essence of who Robert Kennedy was and what he stood for.  And he succeeds in large measure by using archival footage of Kennedy, rather than casting an actor in the role, which allows the viewer to experience Kennedy as he really was, to hear the compassion in his voice and see it in his eyes.  Listening to Kennedy deliver a speech is moving and powerful; and for those too young to remember, or for those who were not around at the time, it affords the opportunity of knowing what it was like to hear words that really meant something, coming from a politician who really cared and knew how to convey the truth of his convictions with such eloquent determination.

What a marked contrast to the empty rhetoric and falsehoods espoused by the inarticulate, semiliterate demagogue currently in power.

As the film points out, Kennedy came from privilege, and he knew it; and he felt obliged (in his own words) to give something back.  He said it and he meant it.  Bobby Kennedy had a vision of how truly great this country could be, and wanted to do something about it.  Unfortunately for all of us, Fate intervened.

The individual stories of the many characters in the film are interesting and well presented, but on their own they are not that important, nor were they meant to be.  The drama that plays out among them as that dire moment we all know is coming approaches is the drama of all of our lives; they are Everyman and Everywoman, and they are there to set the stage and lend emotional ballast to the story.  And under the care and guidance of Estevez it works, as it enables the viewer to identify and relate to what is happening, and what is about to happen.

The all-star cast includes Anthony Hopkins, Helen Hunt, Demi Moore, Harry Belafonte, Laurence Fishburne, Ashton Kutcher, Lindsay Lohan, Freddy Rodriguez, Elijah Wood, David Krumholtz, Heather Graham, Joshua Jackson, Sharon Stone, William H. Macy, Martin Sheen, Shia LaBeouf, Nick Cannon, Brian Geraghty and Emilio Estevez.

In this film, Estevez does not place Bobby Kennedy on a pedestal; he does not portray him as a fallen god.  What he does is capture the spirit of a time and a man who carried the hope of a nation in his dreams.  Estevez proffers no conspiracy theories and no fingers are pointed in this film.  "Bobby" is simply what it was meant to be: A glimpse into what could have been and never was.  And it makes you long for a leader you can trust, someone you can truly believe in; for a country that stands tall and is not undermined by ersatz "patriotism."  This film makes you long for the restoration of the real America.