Should fate decide if you should fall in love with someone or should you decide? In the movie Serendipity, Jonathan Trager meets Sarah Thomas as they both try to buy the same black pair of gloves at Bloomingdale's  in New York and they both feel some love connection between them.  Sarah and Jonathan both have relationships already. My first prediction was that both of them are going to fall in love and forget about their other relationships, but I was soon proved wrong.  Jonathan wants Sarah's number, but Sarah is determined that fate should decide the way. They end up eating ice cream at Serendipity 3 together, and soon exchange goodbyes. This movie is a perfect choice for teens and adults, a love comedy that you'll want to keep watching over and over again!
 Serendipity means the occurrence and development of events by chance in a happy or beneficial way. Sarah wants fate to decide the way. Jonathan is frustrated by her determination to let what should be, happen naturally. Sarah decides to write her name and number in the cover of a used copy of Love in the Time of Cholera and Jonathan decides to write his name on a $5 bill. Jonathan is not happy with Sarah's decision, so they go in a hotel with 28 floors and go into different elevators to see if they both choose the same floor. Before they get in, they each take a single glove from the pair they purchased. Ironically, they both press floor 23, but a child gets on the elevator with Jonathan and presses all the buttons, so it is too late when he reaches floor 23. They think they've lost each other forever.  Both of them go their own ways, Jonathan without the book and Sarah without reading the $5 bill.
Almost seven years later, Jonathan is at an engagement party with his fianc&eacute; Halley Buchanan. On the same day, Sarah comes home to her house to find Lars Hammond, a famous new age musician, proposing to her. As their wedding dates approach, they both find themselves thinking that their future husband and wife is not the perfect one for them, and decide to return to New York to find each other again. Jonathan and his best friend Dean Kansky return to Bloomingdale's to try to find Sarah's name using an account number on the original receipt for the gloves. They meet the same salesman and eventually end up with only an address. There they meet a painter Mr. Mignon, who has very little memory of Sarah. However, he does remember that Sarah lived here for a short time after being referred by a placement company, which he identifies as being located in a shop next to Serendipity 3. Jonathan and Dean find that the agency has moved and its former location is now a bridal shop. Jonathan takes this as a sign that he is supposed to stop looking for Sarah, and get married to Halley. Sarah meanwhile takes her best friend Eve with her to New York, where she visits the locations of her date, hoping that fate will make Jonathan turn up. At the Waldorf Astoria, Eve bumps into an old friend who is Halley and is there to get married the next day. Halley invites Eve and Sarah to the wedding without anyone realizing the groom is Jonathan. Failing in their search, Sara and Eve go have coffee at Serendipity 3. Eve is handed the $5 bill as change, but neither notices anything at the time. By then, I was hoping that Sarah noticed something, but their search for each other continued. It was getting intense!
During the wedding rehearsal the day before the big event, Halley hands Jonathan a copy of Love in the Time of Cholera as a groom's gift, noticed that Jonathon picks up the book every time they're in a used bookstore. It is the copy that Sarah had written in, and he immediately sets off to find her. He gets to the house but sees a couple in the house and thinks it's Sarah and her husband, when it's actually Sarah's sister and her boyfriend. Jonathan tells Dean that he wouldn't have wanted to break off what they have and comes back home for the wedding. Sarah decides not to go to the wedding, and starts to return home. She returns to the Waldorf Astoria to get her belongings, where she finds Lars, who followed her to New York. Walking with Lars to Central Park, Sarah breaks her engagement with Lars. Sarah leaves her jacket in the park by accident. On the plane the next day, Sarah is asked if she wants a headset. She finds her wallet got exchanged with Eve's. She pays the flight attendant $5 for the headset, and realizes she has the same $5 bill which Jonathan wrote on seven years earlier. Now that she knows his full name, she gets off the plane to search for Jonathan. His neighbors tell her he's getting married the same day. Sarah rushes to the hotel only to see a man, apparently cleaning up at the end of the ceremony. She starts crying until the man says the wedding was called off. Sarah plans to keep looking for Jonathan. Sara remembers that she left her jacket at the park. I won't spoil the ending for you, but let me tell you, this movie has a great ending, something you'll never expect!
Serendipity has a great setting and is one of the features that stand out the most. It takes place in New York City during the winter time. I usually visit New York City every winter with my family and it's gorgeous. The streets are all lit up and the Rockefeller Christmas tree is beautiful. Serendipity 3 is an actual store and it's a cozy place to have desserts with your family or maybe you'll find your true love there! Also, parts of the movie took place in Central Park. My family always visits Central Park, it's a huge park and the movie made it magical with all the Christmas lights and snow falling. The setting they picked was a perfect choice for this movie!
Get a chance to watch this love comedy with your family! You'll have tons of laughter and excitement in the air! Serendipity is a movie everyone should watch!