Generally I am not big on horror films or gore-fests. I do not consider this a gore-fest. It is however one of the horror films I like a lot. I remember reading the novel DRACULA as a young boy and feeling a chill and an excitement all the way through. This film captured that for me.
  What more can I say? The actors and actresses involved all sank their teeth into their roles with relish (pun intended) and it showed. Gary Oldman did a terrific job of not only giving us the typical "monstrous" side of Dracula but also depicting the tortured anguish of a man who has lost the woman he loves, has endured CENTURIES without her, and would do almost anything to get her back. That would drive most people mad I think, being without the one they cherish most. They do say love overpowers everything and it's evident here. Anthony Hopkins gave us a Van Helsing appropriately scholarly and wise, while also a bit goofy and amusing. Keanu Reeves was good  as Jonathan Harker too, appropriately reserved, seeming just like a normal man who thrust into extraordinary circumstances. All the other actors and actresses were very good in their roles as well and were very interesting to watch. If Hopkins and Oldman had switched roles, it COULD have been VERY interesting but I think they made the right choice with Oldman as Dracula and Hopkins as Helsing.
  The sets and costuming were all exquisite and grand here, giving a real feel of 19th century England and ancient Transylvania. Castle Dracula in particular stood out but EVERYTHING had a sense of grandeur, of mystery, of danger waiting to strike in a time and place you didn't expect it. The things just plain looked good. The music perfectly captured the mix in the story of danger, foreboding and the tenderness of a love lost, yearned for and rekindled.
  As I said before this is NOT as gory as most horror or slasher flicks out today. It IS however the bloodiest and most sexually explicit and graphic of all Dracula films to date (except maybe Wes Craven's Dracula 2000 but I did not see that film and frankly I have no interest in that film at all.) There are things that make me really love this film. For the first time we get an idea of WHY Dracula became a vampire and how. (Love can drive a person to do crazy things after all, but in their mind they are worth it). We get a Dracula who is not JUST a monster(He is seen telling Mina "I cannot let this be. I love you too much to condemn you"). Also the killing of Dracula in this film is (mostly) accurate according to the novel. He was NEVER stabbed through the heart with a stake, shot with silver bullets, submerged in running water, or exposed to too much sunlight. (The novel DOES have him being stabbed through the heart with a big knife at the same instant as another knife cuts off his head. Mina striking the death blow here at a time shortly after the initial stabbing of Dracula by Johnathan Harker and Quincy P. Morris was likely done to give it the feel of a "mercy" killing. That worked just fine for me too and made his death mean more somehow to me.)
  To make a long story short, I liked this film for it's visual style, it's overall ambiance, and for the fact that it gave us a Dracula who could and DID love, who was both monster and man, villian and tragic figure, ALMOST a kind of tragic hero if you want to go that far. The climax with Dracula begging and receiving the mercy of Jesus struck home with me. It made it all worthwhile to see. It was already a great film and that made it even better. In short, this thing had heart that no other Dracula film in history has had. That alone makes it a modern classic in my book. Enjoy it. You just might learn to love it. I certainly did. Peace.