I had not heard of this movie until I saw it here at Amazon. It is rare for me to not know what the new movies are that either are playing at theaters or are due to be released, but somehow this one got by me.

Anyway, I enjoyed the story very much. As has already been indicated in many other reviews, it is a fairy-tale for adults. It is for adults because of the language. Personally, I can imagine that the movie would have been every bit as good if all the foul language (all of it spoken almost exclusively by the Captain) had been left out. Other than the gratuitous language there is the violence (again -- most of it attributed to the captain). A couple of the scenes were particularly disturbing -- but I will say that the language and violence overall tended more toward the moderate and not the excessive -- they were not so much over the top.

Personally, (and this would be a subjective appraisal) I was just a little disappointed with the ending of the movie in that it seemed rushed at the very end. It was satisfying story-wise but the director seems to have compressed it to a quick few minutes when intuitively I felt it should have been explored further. I would give the particular details but I know that often people are irritated by others spoiling a movie by revealing those particular details before they have seen the movie.

Conclusion:

While it is not a perfect movie, I think that the average adult person very likely 'will' enjoy watching it (even 'with' having to read the english subtitles to follow it).

This is one of the better fantasy movies to come along in a long time.

In a few months I will watch it again with the audio commentary playing to find out how the director brought it all together. (By the way, there's a short prologue in the menu on the disk (lasting only a minute or so) in which the director makes a reference to this movie very nearly killing him. Perhaps listening to the commentary will provide more details about that.)

I am very happy that I bought it.

I recommend it enthusiastically!

(Just a side note):

I bought the Single-Disc Edition of this movie.

My product arrived damaged. (The plastic center piece that keeps the dvd from sliding around in its case was broken and rattling around inside.) I decided to keep it though as opposed to sending it back figuring that the dvd was no worse for its violent journey. Indeed, the dvd 'did' play just fine from beginning to end without incident.