What a remarkable movie. I know I've always wondered what went onto behind the scenes in the lives of royalty and the King's Speech gives us a wonderful view. It's said in legends that a wounded hero is the only one who can save us, and that's exactly what happened during WWII with King George IV, or Bertie as his family called him, and Lionel Logue, a speech therapist.

The King's Speech: Road to the Throne, tells the story of King George the IV, who must take over the throne because Edward VIII wants to marry Wallas Simpson, which would render him ineligible to rule. Considering how courageous Bertie was in first overcoming his stuttering, and then going on to lead England through a vicious war, I think Wallas did the English people a favor. From what I saw of the movie, Edward appeared to a mean-spirited man, more interested in his creature comforts than anything else. One might speculate that he uses his infatuation with Wallas to get out of doing the work of being a king.

This is the story of the friendship between two men, and how a fraud saved a country. Lionel didn't have the degree it was assumed he had, but to his credit, he never claimed to be a doctor. What he did claim was that he could help Bertie and he did. Lionel probably gave Bertie the first unconditional he'd ever had in his life. I don't begin to know what might cause stuttering, but I do know that Edward's constant teasing of his little brother's affliction couldn't have made it any better.

The movie shows us what it was like for Bertie as a man, to be afflicted with the one thing that he can't have, if he wants to give courage to his nation during war times. Lionel gives Bertie the courage to reach beyond his fear, and to rise up in order to save his nation, to show the most important role a ruler must live, and that's to give his people a role model when they've lost heart.

As a movie, both the role of Bertie, played by Colin Firth, and the role of Lionel, played by Geoffry Rush, are played superbly. Firth brings such a vulnerability to Bertie, that to see him rise up to meet his challenges is wonderful. Rush plays Lionel with just the right combination of dignity and playfulness, skillfully walking the edge of innate brilliance and madness.

It took me a while to see this movie because, frankly a story about a king with a stutter than the guy that fixes him, sounds boring the extreme. I'm so glad I took the time to watch it, and really only because of the awards and great reviews it received. It's a movie that stay with me for a long time.