Rose Red is not particularly scary, but it has some decent suspenseful scenes spread throughout its long running time (this was originally a 6 hour mini-series, so without commercials it runs just over 4 hours).  The acting is uniformly strong and of course the writing is great.  Looking back 9 years after it aired, some of the CG effects stick out, but thankfully most of the effects were done practically, so some of the creepy ghosts remain creepy.  The miniature work was very well done as well...you really can't tell what is a miniature and what was a real set.

Unfortunately the "2 Disc Deluxe Edition" is not packed with features.  You get 2 minutes of Storyboard-to-Finished Film comparisons (3 scenes), a collection of Still shots of the sets, and 2 documentaries.  The first documentary is "The Making of Rose Red." It runs 50 minutes long.  There is a lot of good information here (including a lot of information from Stephen King himself), but it is mainly one of those promotional fluff pieces (ie lots of people saying things like "This actor is brilliant" or "The script was amazing").  Some of the interviews were done prior to release (the actors talk about their roles, but try to avoid spoilers), but then they show some footage about how they did the ending, so it is a little confusing about who it was aimed at.  The second "documentary" is "Unlocking Rose Red: The Diary of Ellen Rimbauer" which was a fake "real life look" into one of the characters in the movie.  The 22 minute show originally aired prior to the Rose Red mini-series, intending to provide background information and hype up the mini-series.  It has "experts" who relay the history of Ellen Rimbauer and Rose Red.  One thing I did like was that they had people playing some of the roles from the mini-series, so it looked like "These are the real people, and you'll see an actor play them in the mini-series." It gave it a bit of believability.  It works as a promotional piece, but most of the details are seen/discussed in the mini-series itself, so you won't miss anything by skipping it.

I'd have liked a commentary track or two to be included on the set (if they couldn't get Stephen King to do one, then I'm sure some of the actors or the director could have been persuaded to do one).  Also, I wish they'd included some of the promotional trailers that aired leading up to the mini-series.

This is definitely not the best Stephen King mini-series, nor the greatest haunted house story, but it works as a interesting story and is worth your time in checking out.  If you find that you like it, then I suggest you pick up <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0786890436">The Diary of Ellen Rimbauer: My Life at Rose Red</a>, a companion book that goes into the history of Rose Red in a little more detail.