Nicholas Cage plays Johnny Blaze; a motorcycle stuntman who sells his soul to Mephistopheles to save his father from dying of terminal cancer. His father is killed in a tragic motorcycle accident during an exhibition. So distraught Johnny leaves his home, the carnival and his girlfriend Roxanne, to start a new life. A few years later Mephistopheles strikes a deal with Blaze to release give him back his soul as long as Johnny becomes the Ghost Rider by night. The Ghost Rider is a fiery demon bent on protecting the innocent and is employed to help Mephistopheles defeat his nemesis and son Blackheart. Blackheart and his accomplices Gressil, Wallow & Abigor are hell bent on becoming rulers of the Earth, but only one thing stands in their way and that's the Ghost Rider.

This is actually quite a good movie and I feel a lot of people gave this quite unfair criticism. The intensity of some of the characters is unparalelled yet the acting is quite one dimensional. This is a great film but by no means perfect, possibly the only good acting is portrayed by those who characters matter in the film. Cage as Blaze, Fonda as Mephistopheles & Bentley as Blackheart as all excellent choices and fit their characters perfectly.
I've never been a fan of Eva Mendes' acting and this film merely re-enforces my hatred for her so called acting "skills." Cage is quite surprising as I did expect him to have trouble playing a character that is meant to be quite young. However, he portrays the side of Blaze that is Psychotic, yet, troubled perfectly. The first image that comes to mind is when he first transforms into the Ghost Rider, he has this scarily maniacle look in his eyes that is extremely intimidating.

Overall though this is still quite a good film and although it is let down in some parts with certain scenes, other parts will make up for it which is why it got a 4 star rating.

You should try to watch this film before buying as it's one of those movies which you either love or hate. I loved it but still felt it could have improved a great deal if the casting choices were smarter.