If you look through the reviews you'll see a lot of high and a lot of low ratings. You might wonder how there can be such a bimodal diversity of opinion over a movie. I think it may depend more on the viewer than the movie itself, but let me start by saying something about the movie:

It is perhaps the most literary and complex movie I've ever seen, yet once you catch a glimmer of what is really going on, you will be enthralled, and want to see it again-and-again-and-again. (I've probably seen it, critically, over 30 times). There is a lot packed into this movie, and not all of it is immediately accessible at first viewing.

First, to give a rough idea of what the story is like: think of something like 1984, crossed with Catch-22.

The movie makes a number of comments about society, filmmaking, itself, government, relationships, etc. but not all of these are immediately accessible because of the hilarious capture of an ordinary man in a system that proves Murphys law, and does so only because he tries to move beyond being just a cog in the machine to one who tries to acheive his dream.

And dreams are extremely important in this movie. Not only are dreams intercut between normal scenes you'll also find that much of the material in the dreams actually preceeds their appearance in what purports to be Sam's waking life. By the end of the movie, where it's clear that much of the last twenty minutes or so MUST have been a dream, one is left wondering how much of the entire movie was in Sam's head, or if not Sam's, whose?

By the end of the movie you'll not only have had every "normal" way of living lampooned, but you'll also be left wondering just how sane YOU are, when viewed by those who aren't actually part of the system.

Ever wonder about the incredible silliness of rituals like obtaining driver licenses, buying Xmas gifts or worrying about your complextion? Gilliam looks at the travails of day to day life from the point of view of a complete alien, and then brings them all home in our own language. It's pure genious that he was able to do this, and that he could do so
in such a visually compelling manner is simply astounding!

Will you enjoy this movie? Perhaps. If you prefer the physical comedy of Monte Python or Mel Brooks, perhaps not. If you loved Citizen Kane, you'll probably hate this movie. If you loved Atkinson's Black Adder, reread Phil Dick stories every few years to revisit his insights, and reread Doug Adams to find the jokes you missed the first time around, you'll have a great time!