In the novel by Theodore Dreiser, from which the movie was made, the author captures the irresistible pull of impulse, wealth, beauty, and circumstance, and deftly entwines this naturalistic perspective with the characters' desperate yearning to forge a love that is stronger than the forces pulling them apart. In the battle between Shelly Winters (determinism) and Elizabeth Taylor (free-will), Montgomery Clift is caught in the middle struggling just to survive by instinct, incapable of higher level thoughts. Ultimately, the boat, the lake, even the loons seem to conspire to settle his fate. "Poor George" are Alice's last words, bespeaking her pity for this man whom she now realizes is incapable of any act, much less a violent one.

Like Dreiser's story, Steven's rendition superbly captures the painful struggle of competing antithetical forces: fate and nature vs. personal responsibility and knowledge. Escaping a boyhood life of moral asceticism, George stumbles into a world of money, position, beauty, and personal excess that is beyond his ken. By sheer bad luck his shop girl friend gets pregnant; ironically, by sheer good luck the town ingenue falls in love with him. And whether consciously or not, both ascribe his appeal to the the fact that George is inscrutable, a virtual blank slate on which they dream of being and doing something better.

What is most striking about George is how little control he exerts over his life despite his success at leading two lives with two lovers simultaneously. As Dreiser and Stevens show, George is incapable of making his own decisions, so fate in the form of his lovers, bosses, and even nature (human and Mother) makes them for him. Most of his critical actions are actually "reactions"--done without full consciousness of their repercussions. Is it any surprise, then, that to the end he still cannot determine whether or not he intended to kill Alice? As readers and viewers, we search his face in those final moments of his life to answer this question as well. But what we see is nothing more than what Alice and Angela saw all along: perhaps "blue," perhaps "unhappiness"--or perhaps nothing at all.