PATTON is the combination of authentic biography and excellent war film-making. It engages in breath-taking character development of a prominent figure in American military history, and does so without romanticizing the character. Twenty-first century movie-goers will notice that some scenes betray the age of the picture, but its message is very much for our time.
Despite being filmed during the Vietnam War, PATTON does not feature the anti-war rhetoric that has handicapped almost every Hollywood war movie since. This movie concentrates on casting General George S. Patton as he really was -- an inspiring leader and a colorful character. Yet in doing so, it does not shy away from pointing out how the spicy language and gruff persona that so successfully spurred soldiers into battle often held him back in a world uncomfortable in grappling with larger-than-life individuals. 
Here the myth is debunked that modern warfare tactics prevent the emergence of great men. PATTON provides a refreshing break from current revisionist trends among history academics that de-emphasize the role of individuals and dismiss the importance of military history in the affairs of humanity. While Patton certainly existed and was responsible for landmark Allied victories against the Nazis, Patton is the solid kind of figure a history professor in the average American university would try to hide from impressionable undergraduate students.
PATTON presents an interesting question to those of us in the modern world: we need men of war to win battles, but can we be tolerant of the military culture in times of peace? Patton's life suggested that the answer to this question was advancing towards the negative even in the 1940's. How farther popular culture in the West has gone in reinforcing this contempt for those that fight to defend our freedom! If a commanding officer in today's American military shared Patton's fire and unabashed cultural conservatism, would he have even made it to the rank of general?
In short, PATTON is an inspiring film about individualism in an age of increasing collectivism. In the famous Stars and Stripes scene, Patton says that "Americans will not tolerate a loser." Unfortuanately, Americans that adopt the political correctness of the 21st century are also becoming increasingly intolerant of the individual. But then again, Patton also made it clear that he was only talking about "real Americans."