Oh man was this a fun movie!

At one point I leaned over to one of my buddies and said, "Best.  Movie.  Ever."  Really.  Actually, it probably isn't the best movie ever.  But it was a nice throwback to the good old days of 80's movies that I grew up watching with the cheesy Schwarzenegger one-liners and over the top violence where the good guy wins and the bad guy meets his maker in some ridiculous way.

There are some over the top visuals that make it worth seeing and hearing; the sound was pretty amazing.  And by amazing, I mean loud.  Explosions you can feel in your bowels and that's not just the beef and bean burrito from lunch talkin' either.  Better than they could do in the Eighties.

They missed out on a rematch w/ Lundgren and Stallone.  I kept waiting for Lundgren to say, "I will break you" to someone but it never happened.  The Schwarzenegger cameo was cool, but he should have thrown someone out of a window or something.  Not happening these days.  Same w/ Willis; he really has no part in this and didn't seem too menacing to me which was also disappointing.  However, the rest of the cast delivered cases of canned butt-whoopin' as if they were FedEx.

Here's a typical scene.  Statham kicks the tar out of a bunch of knuckleheads:  in front of his ex-girlfriend who is dating one of said knuckleheads who, predictably, smacks her around.  Too bad for Knucklehead that her ex has more than a passing interest in her and happens to be in a bad mood when he learns of the abuse.  Bam.  Pow.  Smack.  Insert one-liner, get the girl back, ride off unharmed w/ hottie on the motorcycle.  I think people actually cheered at the fight choreography.  I mean, the whole movie is like this.  It's brilliant.

There are some good comic bits but really, it is simply a throwback movie done with bigger, badder explosions and a lot of your favorite tough guys from the era when action actors were immensely rugged dudes.  Muscles ruled, brains, not so much.

5 stars because I can't imagine that they could have recaptured the fun from the Eighties in a better way than they did here.  Don't take it seriously and enjoy it for what it is.