I really don't understand the negative reputation that this film has.  This was the main film version of King Kong that I remember as a kid, and it is absolutely fantastic!  The original is great, of course, and the remake with Jack Black is also pretty good; however, the 1976 version boasts the best version of the story, great social commentary, and a very emotional and sympathetic Kong.  This Kong is also a more realistic creation than the original stop-motion figure as well as the more recent CGI rendition-- the latter was pretty decent, for CGI, but Kong still looked animated throughout most of the film.  The body suit itself in the 1976 version is not very convincing, and actor/designer Rick Baker's body movements are far from ape-like, but Kong's face and respective expressions are nothing less than wizardry, even by today's standards.  I also feel that the bluescreen techniques are very effective as well, as Kong seems to be a true three-dimensional behemoth.  As for the story itself, the premise is very intelligent, as Charles Grodin's character, a corporate businessman type, sails for the island with the intention of exploiting petroleum; instead, he encounters Kong and captures him with the intention of exploiting him as a promotional gimmick.  The critique of big business is certainly innovative, not to mention compelling.  Although a bit over-the-top, Grodin's acting is top-notch, and his performance is highly entertaining-- it is also very easy to hate his character, as he is the main villain in the film.  Jeff Bridges is great as the professor who happens to encounter and join the voyage to Skull Island; his physical appearance prefaces the one he would later take up as "the Dude" in the Big Lebowski, which is worth a chuckle or two, but his sympathy for Kong seems very sincere.  The same can be said for that of Jessica Lange at the end of the film; as Dwan, Kong's "love interest," her performance is very much lacking (she appears to be a bimbo during much of the film), but her feelings for Kong seem very real.

Ultimately, however, the major praise goes to Kong himself.  His face is incredibly life-like, and Kong seems to be a very real creature.  His expressions are very human, and he displays a wide array of emotions.  Above all, the most important thing about the 1976 Kong is the way his character was written and directed.  This is a noble and generally peaceful Kong, much like a real gorilla.  As is the case with many animals, he generally does not attack unless threatened, provoked, or defending his loved ones (an example being his rescue of Dwan from the giant snake).  What happens to him is really quite sad, from his kidnapping all the way to his destruction (yes, it is a very emotional and bloody affair).  Kong is not the monster; he is the victim, and the audience genuinely feels for him (I certainly do).  This was largely hinted at in the 1930's version, but if there were any doubts, this film makes it concrete.

There are, of course, a few drawbacks for King Kong 1976.  Jessica Lange's acting is horrible in many scenes of the film.  Kong's suit and body movements are not very convincing.  Also, there is a distinct lack of animal life on Skull Island; the only creature Kong does battle with is a very phony-looking giant snake.  A few dinosaurs certainly would have been a nice addition to the film, as well as a decent fight scene for Kong.  Overall, however, these are only minor setbacks to an otherwise great film that should be considered a classic.  In my opinion, it remains the definitive version of Kong.