My brother warned me not to expect much from this movie, so I guess it was about what I expected. Duane Thomas gave an excellent review of the differences between the comic reality and the movie reality, and how stupid were some of the changes made in the movie. Suffice it to say that nearly every change they made led to a vastly inferior product. But there was another flaw that I think is important that I didn't see other people bring up, which is the notion of "compression." In the original Miller series, the Elektra - Bullseye - Kingpin - Daredevil relationships were built up over about a YEAR of comic issues. There was a LOT of background information given about all the characters before the battle between Elektra and Bullseye, so that when Elektra got killed, it was a really big deal. In the movie, it was like "easy come, easy go!" Or "Elektra, we barely knew ya." And the best part of the climactic comic issue was that it was told from the point of view of Bullseye, allowing the dark comedy to be played up to its fullest. In contrast, the movie was so rushed in character introduction that we had very little clue about why anyone was acting the way they did. In the comic, the Kingpin is actually a very interesting character. In the movie, he barely makes any sense. Not unlike the closing battle scene between him and Daredevil. It was all just a very amateurish attempt to take one of the great comic book story lines and stuff it into too small of a box. It's unfortunate, because if they had built up to this climax in say the 5th movie, they would have had a real franchise. This is the way the X-men movies are going with the Jean Gray / Phoenix saga. In a couple of years, the movie rendition of X-men #137 is going to knock people's socks off. The movie rendition of Daredevil #181 *should* have knocked people's socks off, but they diluted it with too many other plot lines and inane, made-up stuff like Matt Murdock giving his identity away in front of 30 people. Amateurish!