The Pro's:

It had to be different because they'd already suppossedly killed Jason for the last time in the Final Chapter. Secondly, it's an intriguing idea to go outside Camp Crystal Lake and witness how the legend of Jason Voorhees has effected the community. I think doing this was a daring move. It's the only film, other than the first one, to give us some kind of back-story and add more to the mythos and genealogy of Jason Voorhees. Also, Jason Goes To Hell is one of four Friday films starring Kane Hodder as Jason. Hodder is widely recognized as the best Jason but the four films he played Jason in are commonly considered the weakest entries in the series, with the exception of A New Beginning in which Jason did not appear. I have a theory that the Kane Hodder entries (Part's VII,VIII,IX and X) are probably brought down by Friday traditionalists--in my opinion, traditionalists are probably older fans that remember the first one when it was in theaters and consider the first four films the best because they stuck closest to the original template created by Sean S. Cunningham. It seems to me, the Friday traditionalists have a problem with substance, or a stand-alone story line, in their Friday films. I can see the point of this argument and I would be in favor of it if the additional story elements slowed the films down or got in the way of the chief reason why people go to see these movies, horrific violence. (Now, I know what you're going to say, we go to these movies to see Jason! And, Jason's barely in this installment! Well, I'll get to that in the next paragraph!) Keeping that in mind, Jason Goes To Hell is probably the goriest entry in the Friday series and all of the gore is intact in the final cut of the movie. Unlike the sequels before it, Jason Goes To Hell--like all the Fridays released by New Line--was released on video in both un-rated and rated editions. Lastly, the acting. I think John D. LeMay and Kari Keegan do good work as the two leads, and the bounty hunter character, Creighton Duke, as played by Steven Williams, is a step above most characters typically created for the Friday The 13th universe.

P.S. the ending is killer (no pun intended).

The Cons:

Yes, Jason is only in the beginning and the end of the movie. Yes, it's poorly shot; it looks like a TV movie from the 80's. Acting is irrelevant because the acting is inconsistent in all of the Friday films. Scripting, again, this is a Friday the 13th film. Yes, it's stupid, and, yes, it's disappointing as a "final" entry. Another complaint is that it borrows heavily from other horror films, as if the first Friday didn't borrow heavily from Halloween and Psycho. I think the most likely excuse for this "borrowing" is that the young screenwriters (Adam Marcus, who is also the director, and Dean Lorey, who also stars as the coroner that gets killed by Jason) were probably just writing what they knew - horror movies. Whether or not these plot similarities are intentional or unintentional, as a whole, I think the story is unique for what it is.

In Summary:

Not a bad film, not a great film, Jason Goes To Hell is, however, unfairly maligned by fans of the series. It deserves a second viewing because it gives fans a glimpse into the mythos of Jason Voorhees and shows what it's like living and growing up as a resident of Crystal Lake. However, if you're not interested in plot or thinking outside the Camp Crystal Lake box, then you might be interested to know that there's more gore in this film than in any other entry in the series. Check it out.