This is definitely a film that can be watched over and over again, with a very talented cast of British actors.  James Fleet's Tom actually elicits more laughs from me than Hugh Grant's Charles.  Andie Macdowell has definitely earned the enmity of fans of this British comedy everywhere for the apparent coldness of her character ("Hey, aren't the English supposed to be the cold fish?").  But Carrie, I believe, is the kind of woman who would sleep with another and still manage to mercilessly seduce and befriend everyone in her way.

The movie, as a now cult hit, is curious in some ways.  The film never explicitly states what Charles' job is. But there are two clues which should not be ignored.  It seems that he is a writer or scholar of some sort, who deals with word origins and etymologies. 1) When he asks Tom to stop the car after the first wedding, he claims he wants to go to the inn "The Lucky Boatman" because "he is looking at English inns or pubs that have 'boat' in their title" (not an exact quote). 2) The second clue is given during the -ahem- amorous scene between Charles and Carrie that same night. Andie Macdowell asks Charles where he thinks the word "honeymoon" comes from, and he replies that it's honey because it's sweet, and moon because that would be the first time a husband would see his wife's bottom.

As for the other characters, Tom and Fiona are of course landed gentry (notice the Farmer's Weekly magazine on Tom's little table when he wakes up in the morning in the first scenes of the movie). Scarlett says she's after a job as a sales assistant at a place called "Spank" that sells rubber products (this is when Charles gets the invitation to Carrie's wedding). I have no clue as to what Gareth or Matthew do, but perhaps they are academics, although Gareth's funeral takes place near a factory.

I've always wondered what appointment Charles makes his brother David miss while Carrie is recounting her sexual experiences in the caf&eacute;.  The building in the film does not look like a hospital or a bank.

Previous reviewers state that Charles and Scarlett are siblings.  No indication of this is given in the movie; they are simply "flatmates."  But Charles and David are of course brothers, and Charles refers to his father's funeral more than once.