'Goldeneye' is one of the best James Bond films ever made, a film that really brought the 007 series into the 1990s and revitalised it from the struggling genre that it had become in the 80s to the blockbuster success it was in the 90s and still is today.

The story is an interesting one, and at first we see a mission into Russia go horribly wrong, leaving 006 dead and with 007(Bond) just managing to escape.

From there, the story jumps ahead nine years and we see Bond on the trail of the mysterious criminal syndicate Janus.  What Bond discovers during his investigations is a deadly stranger from his past, a man who betrayed Queen and country, 006 (Alec Trevelyan).

From there, Bond pursues Trevelyan through the streets of Russia in an armoured tank, and from there to Cuba, where the deadly plan of Trevelyan is exposed, and the final confrontation between 007 and 006.

The film is simply brilliant, with an engaging story and actors that bring fresh faces and a new spin to the usual Bond characters (except for Q, who is his usual charming self). Pierce Brosnan sinks into the role of 007 effortlessly, he simply IS Bond.

Judi Dench also brings a new twist to the role of M, and it is her character that voices some of the political changes that have swept the world since the end of the Cold War. The scene between M and Bond in M's office is simply electric, probably the best I've ever seen between Brosnan and Dench.

But in my opinion, the actor that really shines in 'Goldeneye' is Sean Bean. As usual, he plays a conflicted antagonist, the bad guy who isn't totally evil, and he does it with real style. His character, unlike other Bond villians, represents a very personal enemy to Bond, a trusted colleague who turned his back on everything that Bond lives to protect, Queen and Country, making the confrontations all the more interesting. In my opinion, the last scene between Bond and Trevelyan is one of the best finales I have ever seen in a 007 film, brilliant writing, fantastic acting, all put together with some beautiful camerawork.

On a more practical note, I must express my sadness that the 'Goldeneye' DVD is no longer available, at least not in Region 4. It was not on the market for very long, and now every shop and website reports the same thing, 'no longer available'. If MGM want to build up the 007 franchise, particularly with a new Bond on the way, then putting 'Goldeneye' back on the market would certainly help.

I recommend the film to all moviegoers, whether Bond fans or not, it is a thoroughly enjoyable movie that can be enjoyed by the whole family.