Wings", the 1927 movie which was one of the last "epic" silent movies and the winner of the first Academy Award for "Best Picture in 1927, has been available in DVD in a recent release from Paramount. The DVD has been re-mastered from the original film and I found the video quality on my copy to be excellent. The movie is of course black and white, but some of the movie is in tinted sepia and some of the night scenes, such as "The Dawn Patrol" sequence is blue tinted and the scenes of burning aircraft have the flames tinted in red.There is a choice for the background music of Wurlitzer Organ or Full Orchestra. The movie is 144 minutes in length. There are also choices of subtitles in various languages. (This being a silent movie with the dialogue on printed subtitle cards, you might say these are "subtitles for the subtitles.")

Clara Bow is cast as "Mary Preston"-"The Girl Next Door" who is at first considered something of a nuisance by "John (Jack) Powell" played by Charles "Buddy" Rogers who is trying to make a racing car that "Mary" christens "The Shooting Star."

"Mary" has a "crush" on "Jack" but she is largely ignored by him.
"Mary" : "D'ya know what you can do when you see a shooting star ?"
"Jack" doesn't answer, but shakes his head that he doesn't know.
"Mary: "Well....You can kiss the girl you love." She puckers up,expecting a kiss.
"Jack" : "Maybe I will. !"
Much to "Mary"'s displeasure,"Jack" cranks up "The Shooting Star" and is off to take "Sylvia Lewis" (Jobyna Ralston) for the first ride.

Both "Jack" and Richard Arlen as "David Armstrong", who is a member of the richest family in town, are both in love with "Sylvia Lewis" ."She has an advantage."(Over the home town girls like "Mary".) "She is from the city."

The movie is set in 1917 with the entry of the United States in World War I.
"Jack" , "David" and "Herman Schwimpf" (El Brendel) enlist in the Aviation arm of the Army. Gary Cooper, in the role of "Cadet White" is seen briefly - less than two minutes.Their training and eventual combat service along with some comic relief by "Herman Schwipf", who is a drop out, is chronicled.There are spectacular aerial scenes and vast panoramas of trench warfare.

Meanwhile "Mary" has enlisted in the Ambulance Corps", sees action in France, but is sent home when she is mistakenly suspected of being a "call girl" while trying to rescue "Jack" in a cabaret.The climax of the film is the shooting down of "David" by "Jack", who has become the ace known as"That flyin' fool - 'The Shooting Star'" His "Spad" aircraft has been christened by "Herman", a drop out from flying training who has become a front line aircraft mechanic. "Jack"  ,mistakes "David" for a German. "David" has been shot down; trying to return in a German plane he has commandeered. "David" dies in a touching scene. "Jack" returns home in a parade for "the conquering hero" and finds that his true love was "Mary" (Clara Bow) "The girl next door."

Last scene in the movie shows "Jack" and "Mary" back at "The Shooting Star." A shooting star appears in the sky.
"Jack": "Do you know what can you do when you see a shooting star ?"
"Mary": "You can kiss the girl you love !"
They kiss.
The End

About the only "nitpick" that I found was that especially the clothes and hair styles of "Jack" and "Mary" were definitely "1927-ish" instead of "1917-ish." Of course Military Uniforms and airplanes hadn't changed much since 1917 so they are very  much authentic.

The accompanying "Extra Feature" has detailed descriptions of how and where the scenes were filmed - all of which,including a large panorama of a pock-marked battlefield with lines of trenches stretching to the horizon and a French Village - were filmed in the San Antonio, Texas area such as at Fort Sam Houston, Kelly Field, Camp Bullis and the billowing clouds above San Antonio for the aerial battle scenes. "Extras" for both American, French, English and German troops were furnished by U.S. Army troops from Fort Sam Houston and other military installations in the San Antonio area - Said to be around 15,000 in all and hundreds of aircraft and lots of tanks. Cameras were strapped in the airplanes and Charles Rogers and Richard Arlen actually flew the airplanes themselves, especially in the aerial "dog fights" and other flying scenes. The film reportedly cost $2,000,000.