I hesitate to announce my opinions to the world in a forum such as this but am moved to do so by the amazement I experienced when reading the glowing report in the synopsis provided for this movie as well as several of the reviews listed below. It is as if I have seen a completely different film.

This starts out as a travelogue of sights around Europe as experienced by a woman and her daughter and I presumed some coherent story line would evolve sooner or later. It never does. There are two and only two sequences in the entire movie: 1)the travelogue gimmick (although there are several) and 2) people sitting around a table talking with dialogue which gives new meaning to the word "shallow". That's it. I'm not kidding. Symptomatic of the inane direction (among several other faults too numerous to mention and starkly visible by even amateurs such as myself) is the ridiculous repeating shot of waves moving over the keel of the moving ship as the mother-daughter duo moves on to the next travelogue / history lesson sequence. It is truly embarrassing to see this over and over home movie camera type shot from a director who has been in the business for some 7 decades. A first year film student would receive an F for this type of lame-brained visual crutch. After about # 5 or 6 it actually gets pretty funny and provides some temporary relief.

When I arrived, at last, to John Malkovich's appearance, I thought that finally there would be some redemption from the exhausting tedium, that something - anything would start happening. Not so; his role was as irritating and meaningless as everyone else's and I watched in utter amazement that he would ever have consented to be a part of this amateurish nonsense. The script surrounding the never ending table talk by Malkovich and three women aboard the ship masquerades as something deep and philosophical but is instead vacant and self important cocktail party talk. Presumeably, some metaphysical, cosmic connection exists which allows all the participants in this conversation to understand one another since each person is speaking a different language. That's what passes for clever in this thing.

I remain astonished at the whole experience, particularly the very end which was the absolute crowning moment of cinematic imbecility. Those of you who have not seen this movie are forewarned - you'll probably not see any another such example of writing and directorial incompetence even if you go out of your way to find it. Well....there were a few episodes of "Gilligan's Island" which were worse, but that was television.

This movie is perhaps not as bad as Ed Wood's "Plan 9 from Outer Space" but is far more annoying since it not so bad as to be morbidly entertaining (as is "Plan 9") and pretentiously tries to make some last minute statement about terrorism as a rationale for its own existence. But by all means, go out and rent it. Invite some friends over, break out the munchies and watch with the same amazement I felt. Alcoholic beverages may be required and in generous quantities. At the shocking conclusion and as the credits are rolling, turn to your friends and see their stark expressions and open mouthed wonderment at what they have just experienced. You will be known as one who really knows how to do something unique as a party host. Then put on "Plan 9" to take away the pain.