Note- The movie shows full screen on computers and widescreen on tv's

I love this movie and recomend it. Brought back some memories from my jr high years. This is the first in a series of direct to video Alice movies based on the books of the same title.

Alyson Stoner does a very good job of acting in this film. Some may remember her from Mikes super short show and Suite life of Zack and Cody.
She also guest stared on an ep of Thats So Raven.

In the above series her characters were out going in Alice(She plays Alice) the character is subdued compaired to the above. She plays the subdued Alice great, which shows off her range of acting she can do.
Her best scene is at the end when she is crying while talking to her dad.
You can see real tears. One of the few actresses that pulls off a scene like that so convinceingly.

Lucas Grabeel from High School Musical plays Alices brother.

Alice is a girl where everything she does seems to go wrong.
To borrow a phrase "If it weren't for bad luck she would have no luck at all."

If that weren't enough her mom died a few years early and they have moved recently to a new house away from eveything she new. She falls on her face
fitting in the first day at her new school. The girl across the street does however give her a change at school after there first meeting as they were moving in seemingly taking an instant dislike to Alice.

In the end things start to work out. I like that its not a she lives happy every after ending. In the next films she will not dought face new problems to work out.

This is sort of Lizzie Mcquireish that we see what she is thinking live action not cartoon. The tone of the film is Nickelodeon. Would be a good network for it to air on.

Start collecting these films. Good store, Good lessons, Good acting.

Oh there is soundtrack avalable for this movie. Alyson sings two songs.
One a solo, and one a duet. Lost and Found and Free Spirit. You can get the soundtrack with the movie in a double pack but only at Walmart. They should do a normal release of the Soundtrack.  The soundtrack is not avalable seprately.