I saw this movie for the first time in my life at the Aero theatre in Santa Monica on August 5, 2011, after having heard of it for years.  It is an excellent, unique movie.  If it can be as good via a DVD on a TV at home, then buy this product.  But if you ever get the opportuity to see this movie at a movie theatre-Do It.  You  start thinking everybody acting is kind of going for comedy in how we interpret them, but then you take it seriously.  It is like a Shakespearean drama.  You can see why Joan Crawford was a MOVIE STAR.  Before Mommie Dearest, I really did not know her, and then I adopted the Mommie Dearest view. So I never bothered to "learn" her movies as I would try for Humphrey Bogart.  This movie is just great in showing her face in unique ways.  Not beautiful, but mesmerizing.  I think this movie totally lives up to its re-evaluation since release time critical opinion. Ray's take then and now would be anti republican, anti Tea Party, i.e. the Posse, representing the self righteous ones acting as the government-who carry out illegal lynchings.  And what I mean is like great literature, each age can interpret things for themselves.  They had been writing about how there is symbolism of the posse being House UnAmerican Activities Committee, all republicans, and Mercedes as Joseph McCarthy from 1954.  But today, I think you could interpret them as tea party Republicans in their very wrong position.  Anyway, here is the other personal note.  I went to Sedona, Arizona for the first time for a vacation in April 2011.  So then I see this movie for the first time tonight, August 5, 2011--and as we go around with the characters with seeing the geography where they are, I think that looks like Sedona.  And then they showed more and I thought it really looked like Sedona-which we had taken a Jeep tour all around to see these formations.  Then I remember, in Sedona they have a museum for movies that were filmed there.  There are so many that they have a list, like 50 or so.  But then I was thinking that this movie must have been on the list.  So then I went home and googled this movie, and it quickly got to an article about the events during the filming at Sedona-how Joan Crawford and Mercedes really did not like each other.  So, in other words, I would not have recognized it if I had first seen the movie and then gone to Sedona.  But now the true authentic Sedona Arizona can be appreciated.  Looks good 50 years, almost 60 years later.  Greaat movie