Since coming out everyone loves to complain about the second season of Darker Than Black. I will explain why most if not all of these complaints are a result of the series being misunderstood.

The most abundant one is: its nothing like the first season.
Every anime season is produced at least on some level as a self contained being. There is no `five year plan`in anime. Each season is made with only the amount of episodes ordered (so in the case of DTB S1 they didn`t think beyond episode 26) in mind. When or if more does come the creators odften approach it as a seperate series. ie: GITS:2nd gig,Gunslinger Girl Il Teatrino, or Eureka seven AO (a brillant series also being misunderstood and awfully treated.)
The crew had no intention of doing more of season 1 because thay already did that. They threw away the security blanket by having a diffrent setting and mostly diffrent charcters, allowing the franchise to evolve. That first episode is brillantly structred, showing an entirley diffrent group of pepole with one minor charecter from season 1 in a very diffrent context. The clifhanger being the reintroduction of the main charecter.

2.Suo and other anime cliches: As much as I love it the first season of Darker Than Black isn`t very orignal. Sharing a lot of elements with american superhero comics in particular but using them in a terrific way. Season 2 does much the same thing as Season 1 showed they are aware of the faults currently at heart at the anime industry. The writing team chose a le ts show em how its done approach in this regard. Suo is a strong charecter who wont bow to the adults and some pepole may find that approach noff putting but her story is a good one.(However even I cant defend what they did to Mao.)

3.The sexual elements: Accused by some as being pedophilic (In a thread  prasing Black Butler no less.Quite possibly the most phedopilic anime of the past few years)It isnt that simple.The opening really shows what this season is. A young girl seeing the world of Darker Than Black thinking it a nice calm place and learning it is a sick, depraved world. There is a transvestite but the idea there is to add a feeling of absurdisum. Hei and Yins relationship isnt a sexual one either. Its more of a sibling thing. Also at one point one of the main charecters is placed in negative light for participating in events only to get laid and a child rapist is potrayed as a horrifying individual. These elements are not the point of said events but rather an addtional layer of the situation.

Darker Than Black season 2 shows more that anything else that Anime fans are afraid of change. Even with the terrfifc Ovas to transtion them both plot wise and tonally they cant deal with it. No matter how exciting and intellegent of an adventure series it is. But thats okay because the season itself couldint care less what anyone else thinks of it.However I can tell you this much: had the series been a standalone product it would have been justily acclaimed.