I could go on and on to tell why there is no movie better than "The Boondock Saints", but you will just have to watch it for yourself! I agree that the cast, especially the twins, is more than incredible! I catch myself watching other movies just because that I see their name there. Probably the best acting in a movie ever!
And the movie itself is so incredible good wrote and directed that I haven't ever seen anyone come near it! The action scenes in slow motion and with an incredible music, make me roll it over and over....and over again. There is a lot of violence, allthough never unnecessary much. On top of being action-packed it is hilarious! I've never experienced such humor before. The cat-scene, the Wyatt Earp-scene and the crawling in the air-shaft still cracks me up! I actually can't get enough of it. I must have seet "The Boondock Saints" at least 15 times, and still some 15 to go! I have never heard anyone say that this ISN'T the best movie ever. All my friends are hooked, allthough it is mostly a boys-movie. We even learned the prayer: 
"And Shepards We Shall Be, For Thee My Lord For Thee. Power Hath Descented Forth From Thy Hand, That Our Feet May Swiftly Carry Out Thy Command. So We Shall Flow A River Fort To Thee, And Teeming With Souls Shall It Ever Be. In Numine Dei Patris. It Filii...Spiritus Sancti.....BOOM!" 
I also started dressing like the twins, black coat and dark sun-glasses. They've become my idols, and thet's almost scary. I descided to rate only one movie here, and that was to be the best movie I had ever seen. It was never any questions. I've seen a lot of good movies (I love Matrix, Leon, Braveheart...) but they can't even compare to this one. It's in a genre that I have never seen before, and I am hoping for other films like it, maybe a sequel (not very likely) It's a shame that films like this don't get any attention. If hollywood had beed introduced proparely to "The Boondock Saints" I am convinced that it would have been one of the greatest, most popular films EVER!
If you haven't seen this movie, and you are not afraid to get seriously hooked, BUY IT, and do it NOW!!