As a rule I generally do not review films...if only because after attempting this before I find I'm totally inadequate! I know nothing of camera angles, dialogue or for that matter what to even look for in  any given movie! I suspect I would have flunked out of Film 101! Obviously music reviews are my "forte" but since this film ranks as one of my absolute favorites than it's worthy of another attempt. Wish me luck!  
Rob Reiner's "When Harry Met Sally" is for me,after Woody Allen's "Hanna and Her Sisters" and Bogart's "Casablanca" one of the films that I simply need to  watch over and over.These three films have, for me,such an absolute "presence" about them that is difficult to explain. As for this film it is simply is the "standard" for which other romantic comedies should be judged! Meg Ryan and Billy Crystal have such real, honest chemistry between them (which is obviously imperative in a film such as this) that when on screen together they literally jump out at you. Plus, the supporting characters, especially Carrie Fisher, playing Sally's best friend,is a joy to watch...but than again, they all are! Including Bruno Kirby,as Harry's best friend. In fact the dialogue between Billy Crystal and Bruno Kirby at the Giant's football game ranks as one of the strongest scene's in the film....if not one of the most honest!
Also, kudo's should go to the cinematography which, showing New York, in all four seasons,especially fall, is visually stunning. An absolutely beautiful film to watch! The dialogue is extremely funny, not too clever(thank-you), and above all,at times, insightful in what it has to say about relationships and how we go about this sometimes horrible ritual called dating.I know of no other movie that can make me laugh so hard at one moment and shake my head with wonder as one of the characters state something so honest,real and emotionally true that I almost cry. I may be overstating my case here but if so, than oh so slightly!
In the end, a film that I care for deeply because I care so much for the characters and one that I never tire of watching. Adding to the mix a wonderful soundtrack by Harry Connick and you have the perfect valentine.One of those few films where everything simply feels right.Ummm....now if only my dates would go so well!