I really enjoyed the first Ip Man movie, but there seems to be something missing from this installment.  There aren't as many interesting supporting characters as the first movie and many of the returning characters from the first movie are relegated to the background roles of little importance.  For example, Ip's family, especially his wife, played a huge role in the first movie as it stressed the tension between the combative life Ip Man led and the stable and happy family life his wife desired.  In the second movie, the family is there, but it is more of a side note and hardly a main component to the plot.  Character development certainly isn't a focus in the movie as it was in the first.

The plot, that is another major barrier I found with getting into this movie.  Not only does it seem to use the same plot points as the first movie, only done in a less polished fashion, but it seems that the writer(s) of the movie had watched one too many Rocky movies, especially Rocky IV. (*minor spoiler alert*) This movie imitates so many things from Rocky IV, it becomes borderline absurd.  I mean, it has everything from a reenactment of the Apollo Creed match-fiasco to the "If I can change, you can change" speech after the penultimate fight, with the subsequent conversion of the hostile crowd to his philosophy -- though, I must admit the training montage before the final fight was a lot more subtle as you didn't have to watch Ip Man running up any large mountains.

Also, just like Rocky IV, Ip Man has a strong nationalistic message at the root of its plot, just like the first movie. It attempts to show the viewer that Chinese culture is superior to the "foreign devil"  Brits, who are just like the Russians in Rocky IV.  Just as the Japanese were portrayed as vicious inhuman two dimensional villains, the Brits are portrayed as uncultured two dimensional barbarians that act like comic book villains, maniacal laughter included. It's fine if the writers want to write about the British occupation in Hong Kong, but the writing makes the British into caricatures that are unbelievable outside of a movie script and  there seems to be a pro-Chinese culture agenda similar to the pro-American agenda of Rocky IV, which I guess is fine if you are from the country being portrayed as the superior, and not so much for the country being portrayed as the inferior. It doesn't help that the British actors in the movie are atrocious at best.

Also, I'm sure there were Western Boxing vs. Eastern Boxing matches that took place in the past, but I doubt they were as drawn out and absurd as they are in this movie.  I mean, seriously, you put a guy with boxing gloves on, who follows traditional Western Boxing rules, against a guy who kicks, knees, grapples, throws, and is allowed his full range of martial arts ability, which includes punching a guy in the face while he is being held on the ground, and we are to expected to believe that would be a good fight? Maybe in a Street Fighter game that is believable, but in a "loosely-based" biopic, it is laughable.  I guess it is as believable as Rocky winning a boxing match by just blocking with his face.

Anyway, people watch Martial Arts movies for the fighting and this movie has a lot of good scenes, in particular the one between Sammo Hung and Donnie Yen, but there aren't as many good scenes as the first movie.  In fact, there just aren't as many fighting scenes as the first movie and that is a shame, since they are a beauty to behold.

I think the plot drags the movie down too far and is not as well told or put together as the first movie.  I do suggest watching this movie at least for the fighting scenes and just laugh off the plot as I do when I watch Rocky IV.