Many have said "The Dark Knight" is the strongest entry in Christopher Nolan's Batman Story starring Christian Bale.  It is a strong film that cemented Nolan as a master at directing bigger pictures.  However, as many times as I have seen TDK I always walk away feeling there is still something important missing in the film.  The only part of the film that worked beautifully was Heath Ledger's performance as The Joker.  Bale's performance as Bruce Wayne that was handled with care in "Batman Begins," was greatly overshadowed in the overall story of TDK, despite the intensity of his acting in the suit.  The story as a result was just focused on its commentary of control versus chaos placing the growth of its hero in the background.  In the end I felt Chris Nolan and his crew could do even better and that the second film was a prelude to greatness.

I am not giving away any spoilers, since this is a film best seen knowing as little about the story as possible.

In "The Dark Knight Rises" Nolan and his crew more than made up for any of the shortcomings of the second film.  Nolan, his brother Jonathan, and David S. Goyer returned the focus of their story to what gave it its initial strength:  the main hero.  Christian Bale gives his best performance as Bruce Wayne as a recovering, but very wounded individual whose life as Batman has physically and mentally drained him of living a balanced life after eight years of retirement.  Bale manages to convey more emotion in his face, body, and voice than he did in the previous two chapters, taking Bruce Wayne beyond the boundaries of a superhero to portraying him as a fragile man fighting to purge Gotham of the remaining threats to give the people of his city the living environment they deserve.

One aspect I loved about Bruce Wayne's character in The Dark Knight Rises that was excluded in The Dark Knight was that we got to see more of Bale's performance without the bat suit.  After seeing Bale's reinvention of the character in Batman Begins I grew to care more about the man underneath the mask.  He is an awesome actor and it grew tiring to see Bale's acting in the suit for the majority of the second film.  In The Dark Knight Rises Nolan is able to convey more heart in his story of Bruce Wayne by keeping him unmasked.

While focusing his final chapter on Bruce Wayne's character arc, Nolan still manages to create an enthralling equation with his rich ensemble cast, both with new and returning characters.  Bale shares some of his strongest screen time with every actor in the film and vice versa.  Every character in the film has an important purpose in Wayne's story as they are inspired, or influenced to combat the conflict in his journey.  Michael Caine is magnificent as Bruce's butler, Alfred who performs the character with an aching father love towards the hero that is difficult to look away from.  Gary Oldman portrays Commissioner James Gordon as a man more desperate to maintain his humanity after everything that has happened in Gotham City.  Then there is Joseph Gordon Levitt as Detective John Blake who is a great supporting character, a bridge for Bruce Wayne and Gordon to unite again for their mission.  As Lucius Fox, Wayne's weapons engineer, Morgan Freeman portrays the character with more of the comic warmth and resourcefulness that has made his supporting role special.  Another character who turns out to be a surprise is Matthew Modine as Deputy Commissioner Foley who develops from an arrogant cop to a selfless figure of the law, willing to lay down his life to protect the city.

While not as captivating as Ledger's Joker, Tom Hardy still creates a powerful portrayal of Bane that brings a different kind of threat to the City that is complex and intelligent for Wayne to return in the bat suit.  Half of Hardy's face is covered in a mask for the majority of the film, but the viewer easily forgets that he has one due to the amount of attention he utilizes in his forehead and eyes.  Bane ultimately serves as the worst case scenario in Nolan's story, if everything the characters worked for was undone.  He is a villain with a physicality and brain that pushes Wayne's motivation as a hero to the test.  If the filmmakers had gone with a villain similar to the Joker, it would have decreased the film's strength and would have been a redundant mess.

A massive plus in this film that was lacking in Batman Begins and The Dark Knight was the love interest for Bruce Wayne.  It was a very wise choice for Nolan to retire Rachel Dawes from the series.  She was bossy, sarcastic, and rarely unsupportive towards Bruce.  It was difficult to see how a love relationship began between them in the first place besides sharing a childhood together.  In The Dark Knight Rises there is the beautiful Anne Hathaway as Selina Kyle/Catwoman and the equally hypnotizing Marion Cotillard as Wayne board member, Miranda Tate.  Both women are sexy and desirable who share wonderful chemistry with Bale.  At the same time Cotillard and Hathaway brighten their characters with a humanity that makes them both feel genuine, as if they could exist in our reality.  In the main character's story Selina and Miranda are essential as Wayne begins to grow interested in both of them for their own special traits.  As opposed to Rachel Dawes, Selina and Miranda are women who are reflections, or equals to Bruce himself.  Selina is a "Robin Hood" type who admires Bruce for his lack of selfishness and Miranda for his dedication in upholding his family's company.

Wally Pfister's cinematography for the film is nothing less than extraordinary.  The footage looks exceptionally beautiful for being such a dark film.  Whether shot in an ancient prison or in the snow at night, or day in the city, every frame manages to capture your senses and never let you go.  Nolan and Pfister maintain the reality of the Gotham they've developed for the previous films and at the same time create a beautiful atmosphere of dark contrast with bright color to bring life into the dying city.  The scope of Gotham City and the world around it has been increased due to the fact that Nolan decided to shoot the film in New York, Pittsburgh, Los Angeles, london, and Jodhpur, India.  As a result the film has the feeling of a grand epic that helps breath life into the character of Bruce Wayne expanding on the motivational freedom of the lead characters.

Hans Zimmer's soundtrack for The Dark Knight Rises is the most powerful and heartfelt of the trilogy. Zimmer brings the urbanized tone from the previous films while mixing fresh tracks of operatic noir with beautiful tones of calm closure for the characters' story.  The chant "Deshi Basara" (Moroccan Arabic for "Rise up") that Zimmer composed with his chorus and the voices he collected on UJAM gives the viewer an inspirational jolt in bringing Bruce's destiny full circle.

Christopher Nolan brings his best skills as a writer and director in The Dark Knight Rises.  It is the best film about Bruce Wayne/Batman and an appropriate conclusion to one of the most epic trilogies in cinematic history.  As opposed to most third entries in popular trilogies (The Matrix Revolutions, The Godfather Part III, etc.), this one looks and feels as if the filmmakers took their time to get everything just right.  It is a different kind of superhero film unmatchable that at 164 minutes never has a dull, or flat moment and the viewer will forget about the time that is passing by outside the theater.  Nolan has completed a near perfect story as a result of The Dark Knight Rises with careful storytelling and passionate performances from every actor in the cast.