I love this movie. It stands up there with the Star Wars triology and Independence Day as the great sci-fi movies ever. The essential part to this movie is the strong plot and a magnificent script. Heston's speech to begin the movie should give you an idea of the rest of the script. After the credits the movie immediately rides into high gear as the ship flies out of the sky and into the water. Charlton Heston, starring as Colonel Taylor, awakes to find the love of his life dead and in circa 3900. There are three left and they march across the desert on three days food and drink in an attempt to find civilization. The search is filled with great lines. ("We'd better find civilization in 72 hours. That's when the groceries run out.") Skipping ahead, one of Taylor's colleagues is dead and the other is missing. He has been shot in the throat and can't talk. He is the guinea pig of ape scientists in an ape civilization that rates humans at the bottom of their lifestyle. Taylor is viewed as amazingly intelligent for a man, or "animal", though Dr. Zeras (keeper of the faith), for a still unknown reason, wants to keep him quiet. As Taylor's throat begins to heal we learn how the religion plays a huge role in their lives and science contradicts it. From there the plot takes many twists and turns. Taylor talks again and scares the hell out of the apes. ("Get your paws off me damn dirty ape" are his first words) He finds his colleague with part of his brain and memory completely cut out. His saviors are arrested for scientific heiracy (an oxy moron in itself) and flee with Taylor (and his new love) to the "Forbidden Zone" to prove their innocence. Dr. Zeras, keeper of the faith and head scientist, catches up to him. When he reaches them Dr. Zeras reveals a deep, dark secret of the history of man. (The faith denies that any civilization lived before ape, which this secret disproves.) Then Taylor discover the hauntin end of the men of Earth in the way of perhaps the greatest ending to a movie ever! (I will not tell those who haven't seen the movie.) In conclusion this is a very well written story that always twists the way you least expect. The script is without a doubt one of the best ever written while the cast certainly delivers and never disappoints. If you are a fan of sci fi movies and do not need to be thrilled with dazzling special effects then this is the movie for you. Buy it right now! You can't live without a classic like this.