Critics continue to bash "Journey" unmercifully but it's one of my childhood favorites. Many have described the plot in detail so I'll forego a plot description and instead describe the effect it had on me. I saw the film the first week it opened in 1962 at the 1200-seat Palace Theater which was packed, and hearing the audience reactions both during and after the film, many appeared to enjoy it. I was 11 at the time and that cyclops dinosaur creature scared the heck out of me! And judging by the screams it scared many others as well. The giant spider crushed by the falling boulder was a hoot! The film was mesmerizing and entertaining throughout. Even the romantic "Journey" ballad sung over the end credits is a treat. I enjoyed the film so much I followed it to the second run theaters, and then convinced my parents to take me when it opened at the drive-ins.

Its many critics fail to realize that it was basically aimed at the teen and pre-teen market which I believe it satisfied very well.  It was certainly new and offbeat for its time with beautiful color, swirling psychedelic patterns, and that weird compelling music which suited the film perfectly (yes, I realize a good portion of the music wasn't composed for the film but was culled from various sources). When viewed today some of the acting (though not all of it) admittedly leaves a little to be desired, and the special effects and sets are not of the highest calibre. But none of this was apparent through the eyes of an 11-year-old in 1962 as the sets and effects were certainly ominous looking. Although even back then I did think it was strange when the actors spoke and their lips fit the words perfectly in some scenes but not in others.

Upon their first viewing of the film the honchos at American International deemed it "unreleasable" in the U.S. The entire film was redubbed, and scenes of the original Danish monsters were apparently so poor they were cut and replaced by two new creatures AIP considered more marketable for American audiences. The original music score was entirely replaced as well. Somewhere in some vault lies a print of the original uncut Danish version that I'd love to see.

I was lucky enough to meet John Agar at a Hollywood Autograph Show shortly before he passed away in 2002. I asked if he enjoyed making Journey to the Seventh Planet, and he said yes, very much so. He also mentioned he took the family along and they all had a great time vacationing in Denmark while he made the film.

Journey to the Seventh Planet should be enjoyed for what it is - a very low budget but imaginative and colorful space adventure.  The print used for the DVD is a beauty with rich vivid colors and a sharp image. I haven't yet watched Invisible Invaders so I cannot offer a thumbs up or down on this one. But it does star the great John Agar!