If you're a fan of Doctor Who, or just good science fiction, who's been putting off the upgrade to Blu-ray...here's a most compelling reason to make the switch now.  These 4 special episodes shine brightly in the hi-def format.  BBC gave us a taste of this with last year's release of <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0016821YI">Doctor Who: Planet of the Dead [Blu-ray</a>] (which was the first episode to be filmed in HD) as well as the 3 series of Torchwood.  I'm not sure what the British are doing different from the U.S. or other countries, but their hi-definition programs are simply the best I have seen in the format.

On the chance that you're not familiar with these special episodes themselves, here's a quick run-down.  Please note, this review does contain minor SPOILERS:

THE NEXT DOCTOR: The 2008 Christmas special.  The Doctor visits Victorian England, where he encounters another man claiming to be the Doctor.  I won't spoil the surprise, but there are some nice twists and a standout performance from David Morrisey in the title role.  This was the first of the modern Doctor's episodes without a regular companion.  It was also the last episode before the switch to hi-definition, but the upconvert used here looks fantastic, so it's really a non-issue as far as I'm concerned.

PLANET OF THE DEAD: Aired on Easter, 2009.  The Doctor and a woman on the run (The Bionic Woman's Michelle Ryan) are among a busload of passengers who find themselves stranded on a desert planet overrun with terrifying flying creatures.  Most folks agree this one's just an average adventure.  But, it looks stunning.

THE WATERS OF MARS: A great, creepy tale set on mid-21st century Mars.  The Doctor has some hard choices to make when he realizes a group of Martian colonists are destined to die on the day he arrives.  It's also one of David Tennant's finest hours, as he begins to confront the prophecy regarding his own death that he was told at the end of Planet of the Dead.

THE END OF TIME: This two-parter was the end of David Tennant's tenure as the famous Time Lord.  While confronting his own mortality, the Doctor also must face the enemy who knows him best. . .and the power of a forgotten race that is using the power of time itself to reshape its own destiny.  It's a bit of a mixed bag (particularly part 1), but it's still highly engaging and a fitting resolution to the 10th Doctor's journey.

As with the individual season episodes, each special includes an hour-long documentary, Doctor Who Confidential.  These are typically well-made and informative shows that die-hard fans will appreciate.  Most everyone else will probably watch them once (if at all) and not again.

More interesting (to me, anyway) is "Doctor Who at the Proms," an hour-long special.  It features the music of the show performed live at the Royal Albert Hall.  But this is no mere concert; it features actors in costume as Cybermen, Judoon, etc. that interact with the audience.  And it's hosted by Freema Aygemen, with an appearance by Catherine Tate.

As I said at the outset, these shows look fantastic on Blu-ray.  If you're a fan, this is really a no-brainer.  As Doctor Who moves into a new era with a new actor in the role, it's very gratifying to know that BBC is providing fans with the best possible versions of these final adventures with the 10th Doctor.