If there's anything you knew in advance about "Sin City" (aside from who gets naked -- show a little class dammit) it's that director Robert Rodriquez went as far out of his way as humanly possible to make this film adhere as closely as possible to the visual feel of the comic book source material. Well, I haven't read any of Frank Miller's legendary "Sin City" comics, but having seen the movie, I can't imagine it existing without them.Many people will see similarities between "Sin City" and the work of Quentin Tarantino, both because Robert Rodriquez will probably never break free from this stigma no matter how many kiddie flicks he makes, and more importantly -- gulp -- he actually inviteds QT on board to direct one of the segments, this after he'd torn up his DGA membership card in disgust after they wouldn't allow him to list Frank Miller as a co-director, so as far as integrity goes it's hard to one-up Sir Robert here. I didn't pay a whole lot of attention to which segment QT was supposed to be directing ahead of viewing this flick, and it's to the film's credit that it all seems of a piece no matter how the chores were divvied up.

Now, there are a couple of things that are immediately going to weed out a certain part of the older audience (hello Ma!), this being the "artsy" use of black-and-white splashed here and there with purposeful primary colors, and also the integrity of the action sequences. I shouldn't diss the so-called "older" audience, being in my third decade of existence myself, but my parents and everyone else their age have certain prejudices toward a particular kind of modern film, this being the type that has "far fetched" action sequences. Yes, in "Sin City" the characters are able to take a ridiculous amount of bullets and keep on ticking as well as jumping out of windows several stories to the ground without any apparent injuries, but to that I say that there is a reason this kind of thing works in a film like "Sin City" whereas it can easily wear thin in a movie like, say, "The Matrix". Sin City is portrayed as a hopelessly fatalistic backdrop against which the best the characters can hope for is to die with a little bit of dignity. It doesn't really matter that Marv doesn't croak after taking a bullet to the head because you know the dice are gonna roll cold for him sooner or later.Another comparison people may make to Tarantino is to point out that "Sin City" is also an anthology film. I could mention the fact that this is based on three graphic novels featuring different protagonists and leave it at that, but -- at the risk of unduly diminishing the genius of Quentin Tarantino, whose "Pulp Fiction" is undeniably the most influential film of the 90s and a work of art in it's own right -- it should be noted that QT did not, in fact, actually INVENT the anthology film. No, that would be George Romero and Stephen King with "Creepshow" (I'm kidding, of course, but you get my point...).

Aside from the anthology aspect, there is one thing that actually does somewhat resemble "Pulp Fiction": Bruce Willis' character makes an early exit only to return later in the film. It's not the same chronological gimmick that QT utilized but I've said enough as it is.The one aspect that got so much press in the film's pre-release was the unprecedented decision to film the entire movie in front of a green screen. This move not only doesn't come off as a gimmick but you'll find yourself forgetting that "Sin City" isn't absolutely real about five minutes into the movie. Sure, there are numerous improbabilities, as detailed above, but it's the MOVEMENT of the characters, vehicles, weapons, etc. that seem a bit cartoonish; nothing about the actual scenery really does. In essence, "Sin City" sticks to the elements that continue to make noir so compelling: great camerawork, gritty characterizations, and the theme of a hardened soul holding out some kind of remote hope for redemption. Bruce Willis was an absolute no-brainer for this flick: he's spent the last decade perfecting this world-weary gutter saint character, and "Sin City" is arguably his best portrait of this tortured soul archetype yet. Willis, Clive Owen and Mickey Rourke are the three main protagonists, and you'll find yourself rooting for them not through point-of-view bias alone, but because each of these guys completely earns the right to be called a bad ass. In a way I'm glad they saved the fate of Willis' character for last as the whole movie seems to be building to such tragedy.

So, yes, it's unfortunate that so many people will rent this movie sheerly on the recommendation of Mr. Skin, but hopefully "Sin City" will turn more than a few heads on to a new, hightened quality of experimental film-making in the same way that the aforementioned "Pulp Fiction" did a decade ago. Word is that Rodriquez is planning two back-to-back sequels as we speak.