If you haven't checked out this, the first "Hannibal Lector" (or "Lecktor" as it is spelled in Manhunter) film you are certainly missing a hidden gem of the mid-80s.  Why this movie was a box-office bomb is beyond me -- perhaps a limited budget, lesser known (at the time) stars, bad push by the studio, who knows.  This film is one of the best in its genre if you go into it without a lot of expectations set by "Silence of the Lambs".
William Petersen has become one of my favorite actors and you can see a bit of "Grissom" from CSI in his portrayal of Will Graham, the FBI profiler protagonist of this film.  However, the character is very unique and Petersen, a master of the stage, jumped into this, only his second film, rather well.  His portrayal of someone on the edge, someone who becomes disturbed himself by putting himself in the minds of the disturbed is simply amazing.  I don't know if Petersen says there's some Graham in Grissom but I would bet he would.
Petersen and Brian Cox are simply brilliant on the screen together and the four fellows I mention above: Petersen, Brian Cox (Hannibal Lecktor), Dante Spinotti (cinematography), and Michael Mann (director) really shine in the Lecktor scenes.  First of all, Petersen and Cox have an energy playing off of each other that is simply amazing.  These are different characters than "Lambs" and the portrayal is totally unique.  Petersen is going where he doesn't want to go, Cox knows it and toys with his prey, Spinotti's use of color and lighting are intense and Mann tops it all off with unique camera angles and use of the geometry of the bars and other parts of the set.  This scene from "Manhunter" should be part of any Cinema 101 course if it isn't already.  Like other reviewers, I liked Cox's portrayal of Lecktor in a more subdued and subtle fashion.  No, there aren't any great catch lines or funny sounds, just great subtle acting, it's the nuances that make the performance stick with you.
Finally, the finale is simply astounding with the use of Iron Butterfly's "In A Gadda Da Vida" both in buidling of tension and timing.  It's truly a blazing ending and the editing is equally blazing.  The use of quick flashbacks is a gripping portrayal of such a traumatic event and to anyone who's experienced trauma it should seem very unsettling and very real.
"Lambs" was a brilliantly done film but so is "Manhunter" with far less of a budget and star power to go on.  The best comparison I can think of to "Manhunter" came from the same time period -- "Terminator" was similar is its brilliance, it's lack of initial box office draw, and its rabid cult following.  Both were done on shoestring budgets and both are impressive to watch, mid-80s warts and all.  Some reviews I have read on this film have been rather pathetic, criticizing wardrobe of all things.  I suppose these same people criticize "Gone With the Wind" for having such an "1860s" wardrobe.
As far as the DVD this review is related to the first one (Aug 2002 release) that is not the Director's Cut or Divamax version.  I found the transfer to be splendid, I didn't notice a single problem with it.  The sound was better than I expected for a movie of this age and I believe was taken from the film's 70mm soundtrack, though it may have been remastered.  The extras are token but nice (I hate gaggles of extras anyway).  All in all this is one of the best [money] you will ever spend and will leave you near breathless when it is done.  Can't praise this film more, Mann showed Heat was no accident and put himself on the auteur map with this film.