There's been a lot of talk recently about Noah Baumbach given the praise he received for The Squid and the Whale. I was searching for his second feature, Mr. Jealousy (incidently on order), when I saw that Criterion had released a new edition of his cult favorite Kicking and Screaming. It's a film I saw when it was originally released and immediately identified with. I think it is a common rite of passage for liberal arts majors to spend sometime after graduation spinning their wheels as they try to decide what to do with their lives, which is basically what this film is about. The details of these four characters who are in arrested development mirrors that of my post graduate roommates and myself. I think it is the start of a process in which your naive illusions of life are lost or shattered.

As it should be I suppose, Baumbach is my contemporary, born in 1969, and directing his first movie before I even got my MA. My friends and I had a similarly rented an old house near the university with, I swear, the same books on the shelf (As I Lay Dying, Conrad, etc...). Furthermore, we had the same ridiculous conversations: consider: "Who would you rather do Peppermint Patty or Lucy?" vs "Who would you rather do Sally Jesse Raphael or Oprah?" I'd like to think that we were as witty as these characters were (previous lines excepted)-there are a lot of great lines, which is one of the reason this has become a cult classic I suppose, and I think that's true of The Squid and the Whale too. Consider these: "I'm nostalgic for conversations I had yesterday." / "Oh, I have been to Prague." / If Plato is a a fine red wine , then Aristotle is a dry martini." / "I like a bartender who drinks". It also stars some of my favorite indie actors like Chris Eigeman (a Whit Stilman regular who was in Metropolitan, Barcelona, and The Last Days of Disco), the lovely Parker Posey (Ryan Adams's current squeeze and indie film queen-what hasn't she been in from Hal Hartley movies to Richard Linklater films), and the always reliable Eric Stoltz. The leads Josh Hamilton and Olivia D'Abo were well cast and had good chemistry as well. In fact D'Abo's Jane, who wore a retainer, reminded me of a college friend Jennifer, who had braces, a similar hairstyle, and was equally smart enough to end up as a college history professor. I also see the seeds for The Squid and the Whale in the messy divorce of Grover's (Josh Hamilton) parents, of which the father was played by Elliott Gould.