THE BOONDOCK SAINTS is the best movie I have ever seen! It's perfect in every way! The story, the action, it's flawless! The only thing that I don't like is the use of the F word about 270 times, but who cares? This movie more then makes up for the language! Anyone who has not seen this film needs to, and if you hate it then you don't know what a good movie is! This film may be offensive to some, yes, but overall, it is near perfection, and director Troy Duffy has made a masterpiece of epic proportions. Seriously, don't listen to the haters, they don't know crap about good movies!

This movie is mainly crime-based, but it's no ordinary detective story, this film is literally in kind of a genre all it's own, it just has everything it needs, and lacks nothing. Like I said, every film has it's flaws, but this movie actually makes up for all it's flaws, just in the way it's presented. I would give this film more then 5 stars if I could, it is really that amazing.

Also, anyone looking at the date of "2000" and saying, well this is old, it can't look that bad right? WRONG! This film looks just as good if not better then half the bullcrap Hollywood is pumping out nowadays! There is not allot of CGI or specials effects, it's just not that type of film, but the stunts are amazing and everything is smooth and perfect, and not choppy whatsoever. So throw any fear of this film being under par right out the window.

Also, since there are people like this, THIS IS NOT A FILM FOR KIDS! I hate people who do that, I saw Watchmen like a week ago *which was amazing by the way... :)* and I saw kids in the theater! When will people learn what an "R" rating means??? Just saying, if you looking to buy this and it's for someone younger, then I don't recommend it, it's for mature audiences only.

All in all, this film is a masterpiece, a gem, and will forever take place among my all time favorite films. My three favorite films are Watchmen, The Dark Knight, and The Boondock Saints *which is actually THE best one*, so believe me when I say that you should give this film a try, but go in expecting some mature materiel and some offensive language, but other then that, enjoy the ride and in no time you'll be repeating the phrase:

And shepards we shall be,
For Thee my Lord, for Thee.
Power hath descended forth from Thy hand,
That our feet my swiftly carry out Thy command.
We shall flow a river forth unto thee,
And teeming with souls shall it ever be.

In Nomine Patris, Et Filii, Et Spiritus Sancti.

THE BOONDOCK SAINTS FOREVER!!!