I don't understand why everyone has a hard time interpreting this film. Here is the simple philosopical plot alright! Patrica Arquette plays Renee Madison Fred Madison (Bill Pullman)Wife. Fred Madison is obcessed with her..so obcessed that he can't even hold his end of the bargain in bed. She isn't obviously a true Human being and several clues reveal that in the movie. She is also cheating on him and he suspects it. Also there is another person in the movie (Short Guy with a Pale Face) which really would be considered the Devil or a deciple of. His face was also seen in the film emerged with hers..one can only figure they are the same person because they are never seen in the same frame. Fred goes to Prison for the murder of his wife which he didn't commit. But for some reason he is being tortured by the devil you can only suspect. He tranformes into a guy that was killed on the highway the night before and was released from prison. Renee comes back but only this time her name is Alice to reak havoc on his existance again. Does Pete/Fred fall for her again ? Yes he does and he ends up right back were he started! He kills several people for the obcession of her and later finds out she really doesn't exist. Also he finds out who she really is in the cabin. The key to this movie is ...Haven't we met before? At your House remember? Basically this is a struggle of Obcession over a woman that is extremley sexy and attractive. Obviously we have all been there but I think not to this extent. This movie just shows that when you worship something more than your self ..were it can get you. The movie has a lot of twist and turns and unexplained portions and questions to be pondered over. Over all though it is a great movie ...Fred Madison just was a tormented man that didn't love himself and obcessed with a woman that was basically the devil and he paid for it ..and was sentenced to Hell on earth. Alice wigfield and Renee Madison are both played by Patricia Arquette. Fred Madison also finds out that Alice is Renee and that she never loved or cared about him in the end. She is an extreme product of deception,Manipulation and evil. There are even Hints in the movie were Alice is on screen doing a porno with Marilyn Mansion. Get ready for the ride of your life...I hope this explains this film to you i ful retrospect! If anyone agrees after watching let me know!