Man, they made it all fun for how the introduced Urd and Megumi into the series. Heck, the producers did one better again than just simply adhering to the old manga.

Kinda funny how Urd got introduced this time, as did Megumi. It makes one wonder how Peorth and Skuld will come into all this. And 'any' fan of the AMG Movie should love the opening scene of episode 8. Seeing Heaven itself was just gorgeous as well, and the themes keep expanding for the better.

I just can't help but feel the melding of several formats of the AMG/OMG landscape are melded together very smoothly. I also see a tendancy not to stick to the manga too hardcore. The scene where Aoshima tries to get his way, it was made more part of the episode 7 story arc, rather than it's own story altogether, like the manga did. The 'sorta' made it feel rushed though in episode 10 with the race (lip service to the drivers Aoshima hired was a bit too low key for me.) Overall though, it all was mostly well done, especially in the romantic areas (and the messes Urd causes after her arrival.) One thing I did like (personally speaking..) was seeing the females seem more forward than they felt like from the manga. (Seeing Bell mad was a riot.. =^^= )

What is kinda strange/corny/ect.. and more, is when the goddesses make obvious use of their powers in public, especially during the campus 'queen' event at the start of episode 9 (which is wierd to do 'that' all as a prolouge to the episode.) It all kinda makes you wonder how ditzy the combined campus is, but then it all is more humorus to myself, than anything bad. Aoshima and Sayuka though get 'wierd' on top of this. Just more laughs there.

Can't wait till next month to see what the heck Mara starts doing. Worse when Skuld shows up, and goddess knows about the bug problem and all. Overall, I keep being enthraled as a fan of the series with this release. It makes me wonder though, again, how much the timeline of the manga will be changed to fit the story, rather than just adhering to the manga. If such, the placement of the Urn and all that severe mess comes to mind as plot drama.

And if anyone warns me in advance about this, I'll borrow some bombs from Skuld. In other words, for those that haven't seen the entire series yet, the coming volumes will be an honest treat.

Till next month then (or February more likely..) =^^=