I must add my voice to the chorus of praise for this excellent documentary.  True, it's depressing and leaves the viewer with a sense of frustration and rage...but should also inspire everyone to become determined to do anything in his/her power to work for independent media in this country.

Even though corporate ownership controls to a great extent everything we see and hear over the airwaves today, there are alternatives which are experiencing promising growth every day.  Conservative talk radio in the form of Rush Limbaugh and right-wing TV with its FOX Network talking heads (Bill O'Reilly and Sean Hannity, among others) are the undisputed "giants" who control the media markets throughout the nation, but do not underestimate the younger, smaller, but up and coming progressive radio and TV programs which have been gaining in popularity in the past year or two.

Air America Radio, which features such progressives as Al Franken, Randi Rhodes, Sam Seder and Janeane Garofalo, among others, Ed Schultz (from the Jones Network), and the brilliant, award-winning Amy Goodman with her co-host, Juan Gonzalez, on Democracy Now!, both on her web site (with streaming video) as well as on TV in some markets on public access or PBS stations...all are making strides in reporting the truth every day.  Most of the above named radio hosts have written books, and many of their programs may be accessed via the Internet.

If your town doesn't have a radio station that carries progressive talk, then do as others (including myself) have done: organize your own grass-roots group, scout around for a station that has low or sinking ratings, and approach the manager with the idea of bringing one or more of the progressive talk programs to their station.  Don't think it can't be done!  If a group of four (then six) women who had never been activists in their lives could accomplish this, then anyone can!  It might not happen overnight, but it could happen.

Just buy and watch this DVD, then, energized and motivated by your outrage, GET TO WORK!  Help us fight the monopoly of our airwaves and take back our freedom of speech!