I'm a little surprised by the glowing reviews for this collection.  After the terrific Cadmus arc from the previous seasons, season 2's (actually season 3's, but I digress) Legion of Doom idea, while cool in theory, often comes off as silly, anti-climactic, and contrived.

In regards to the first point, don't get me wrong--a little silliness is okay.  Flash swapping minds with Luthor is pretty funny.  But Luthor rocketing the legion's entire headquarters into space?  Uh, yeah.  Or Luthor somehow figuring out how to take control of the Justice League's female members' minds?  Right.  (By the way, if he could somehow manage this, why not just take over the minds of all the League's members and call it a day?)

And the series definitely ends on a somewhat anti-climactic, farfetched note.  As if Darkseid's resurrection was not stretching the limits of believability already, his so-called defeat by Luthor and the ridiculous anti-life equation was simply puzzling and laughable.  Deus Ex Machina, anyone?

And there are other numerous disappointments.  Both Superman and J'onn are nearly absent through most of the season, Batman's intriguing relationship with Wonder Woman is ignored, and far too many villains are apathetically killed off in what is little more than a throwaway scene.

On the plus side, I did enjoy the Hawkman saga, most of the Flash episodes are enjoyable, and the Legion of Superheroes story is good (although can you really see Kara giving up her own time period for, um, Braniac 5?!).  But in the end, this season is not nearly as well-planned and envisioned as its predecessors.

And shoot, considering how well the previous season finale conclusively ended the series up to that point, season 3's plethora of unanswered questions and loose ends is almost unforgivable.

Anyway, anyone owning the other seasons might as well grab this one too, as it's still entertaining material.  But if anyone is expecting this set to be of the caliber and quality of previous installments, he will likely be disappointed.