I recently bought this DVD, and i must say it just doesn't disappoint. I remember it was one of my many favourite movies when i was growing up, and it was always fun. Joe Pesci and Daniel Stern give tremendous performances in this movie too. The casting is just so perfect..Macaulay Culkin as "Kevin"..Catherine O'Hara as "Kevin's Mother"..Joe Pesci and Daniel Stern as the frustrated and bumbling burglars..right down to "Kevin's" brother, who's name escapes me right now, and John Candy, who has a small part as the "Polka King of the Midwest". But really every actor in this movie seems to just be so natural for the parts they play.

If you haven't already seen this movie, i suggest you do so as soon as possible. It's truly a classic and will have you laughing at the ingenius ways "Kevin" booby-traps his house. The movie starts out with "Kevin's" family getting ready for a Christmas Vacation to France, that they'll go on the next morning. "Kevin" is left on the outer it seems, as his family have no time for him while they all pack their belongings for the trip. He then gets into a fight with his older brother and is sent up to the attic to spend the night. The next morning, the family sleeps-in and in the hurry to the airport, forgets that Kevin is still up in the attic..

The movie really picks up though, when the burglars (Pesci and Stern) finally try and enter the house. Their plan at first seems to be about stealing valuables, but it quickly turns to "Get that kid!!", which in turn produces some of the funniest material in a Family/Comedy i've really ever seen. "Kevin" is just a genius with how he rigs the house as a massive booby-trap basically, and the burglars are extremely funny with the way they get so frustrated.

This DVD also comes with Scene Access, allowing you to immediately go to any scene in the movie without fast-forwarding. It also has Multiple Language Subtitles, and the Original Movie Trailers for Home Alone 1, 2 and 3. With 3, in my personal opinion, being the least appealing of the series.

I think this movie is a classic, and will have you laughing along with it until the end. It's a great comedy, that you don't have to watch with anyone if you don't want to. You can watch it by yourself and get just as much enjoyment out of it. I also suggest seeing Home Alone 2, which is a pretty good sequel that keeps most of the same cast from the first movie, such as Macaulay Culkin, Daniel Stern and Joe Pesci to name a few.