While this may not be the best compilation of episodes from this marvelous series, a product of years of perfecting the incomparable Batman the Animated Series, and even though the best is yet to come [and babe wont it be fine] in the last set as such wonderful climaxes in storytelling such as Apokolips Now! and Legacy are released, this set represents as a whole one of the best single television series ever to grace the small screen. Most each and every episode is so self-inclusive of itself from the group  It is marvelous how one of the more shunned foms of medium, the comic books, have become the vehicle for some of the greatest storytelling of all time, and even more a shame they have not received the public attention they deserve, simply because they are animated. In "studying" [watching mindlessly, hehe] hours upon hours of the DC animated series, and paying special attention to such details as the music, and the synchronization between the action on screen and the music cues, there are no finer shows that pay attention to the full scale of controls in storytelling than these animated gems. While true, some of them are strictly for the sci-fi among us, and while I have an innane scorn for things done strictly for the sake of telling whacked-out stories with characters who can take it, in most if not all instances of the Superman Animated series, they are so humanized by the limitations placed upon the protagonist that there is always a level of inherent relation between the audience and the most powerful being in the DC universe. In the later series, such as JLU, when Superman has matured in strength and intellect, he seems less and less this naive farm boy, and all that remains is the firm fertile ground of Kansas in which  his morals are planted, the true strenght behind Superman being his motives. I like to think of these series as the "pueberty" years of Superman's superhero career. He is still assimilating both defeats and victories into the hero he will one day become. The great part about this is that he can still be threatened by very real world situations, and these represent the best forms of writing; not catering a story to a superhuman character, but conforming that character to a situation that tests more than what makes him superhuman, but what makes him human, and exempliary in all those aspects. "The Late Mr. Kent" represents this best. If all stories could've been THIS well planned, and theatrical, the series would've been the best television show ever to be created. Yet, then again, that single episode wouldn't stand out. I will not divulge too much, and simply implore you to see it for yourself, but the collaboration of innovative storytelling and music in a real world situation in which the variable is not some mutant villain, but the Boy Blue himself, and put into a situation that is beyond his superhuman strengths to correct, in which he is reduced to the same confines as a normal human being, proves to the watcher that he truly is a superhero without his strengths and powers. THIS is Superman, the way he deserves to be represented, as the icon of strength and power towards good will. Of course, there is struggle on this path, even for one so powerful, but the eventual outcome, even if by the intervention of good friends, is always the toppling of evil.

P.S. I am wishing to start a petition online to support the release of ALL the scores concerning Batman and Superman animated series, and all related titles [including orchestrations of the synthesized scores to Justice League, and Justice League Unlimited, both chock full of great musical ideas bound by a slim budget to being synthesizers]. This music is some of the most incredible music ever composed, with Shirley Walker being the new queen of leitmotif [move over Johnny] and being both incredibly effective in and of itself, and complementing the cues on screen. No finer film and television music has been composed.