
 Yes, this film is long and has legthy scenes where there is neither significant action, not substantive dialog. However, the film, I believe, is intended to create an atmosphere and does so with nary a frame of film out of place. You could absorb the entire story, characters and plot in a film half the length, but miss the wonderful flavour of the film. As an example of what I mean, consider some of the scenes in Lawrence Of Arabia, another slightly more well known film of some length. There is a scene that lasts about five minutes and show nothing other than the sun rising in the desert. This, in my opinion, is not editorial laziness, but the establishment of a mood and evocation of an atmosphere, preparing the audience for the forthcoming scenes. 
 Solaris is a planet an undetermined distance from Earth. There is a man made satelite exploration station in orbit over the planet and a psychologist is sent to the station to investigate some peculiar events. The scientists have been bombarding the surface of the planet with radiation resulting in some perturbing manifestations, side effects of the blending of human minds and the apparently intelligent (though not in our way of understanding) planet's ocean surface. The film explores the human's different reactions to these manifestions. 
 I have also read the book, Solaris, by Stanislaw Lem, and the film is signifcantly different take, although just a legitimate, in my view. One of the driving messages that I took home from the book was just how difficult it was for Man to accept that he can observe something as complex and fascinating as Solaris, but even applying all the science and culmination of man's knowledge, still fail to understand what he is seeing. The film does not stray from the space station as much as the book does, and tends to spend more time portraying the gradual madness that descends on the newcomer, a madness that his colleagues (one already deceased) are already sunk into by the time he arrives. 
 However, in the end, both book and film, do not attempt to make any conclusive revelation about the nature of the planet, but rather, make subjective revelations about ourselves.