How delighted I was to see "Mr. Magoo's Christmas Carol" on DVD for the holiday season 2002. My children grew up with this since 1962 when it first aired on TV. Then my grand children when they came along. At our house, it was not Christmas without viewing Magoo's Scrooge at least once.
  A few years it was on TV 2 or 3 times.  Some years not at all.  We were always disappointed when it wasn't shown.  When the DVD came out, I bought us all a copy for Christmas.
  The telling of Scrooge and his tight fisted ways became more understandable in this version with Belle, his long ago sweetheart who had released him from their engagement when he became more and more interested in money making and hoarding wealth.
  Dickens tells how young Ebeneezer was left alone at school when everyone else had gone home for the holidays.  His loneliness was made even more apparent by the song, "A Hand for each Hand was Planned for the World."  More than any scene I've watched in other Scrooge movies, this song tells how being by himself so much changed him, why he withdrew over the years, more and more away from people and into money, which provided his warmth and security blanket.
  Music can be such a vital element to any scene, binding it together.  "The Lord's Bright Blessing," "Ringle, Ringle, Coins make such a Jingle," "Razzleberry Dwessing," and "We're Despicable" are wonderful songs too, really fun to sing and bringing to life the feelings of each scene.  Belle singing "The Winter was Warm," tells of their love and why it grew cold. How his growing concern for making money had replaced feelings.
  I've wished that all the music scenes were provided separately in the "special features" section and that it should be done with every DVD. We love these songs and would SO MUCH enjoy being able to sing along with all the music together.
  Jules Styne and Bob Merrill did such a wonderful job with these songs, that it made "Magoo's Christmas Carol" very special.  The catchy tunes and lyrics convey action and feelings better than words spoken in other versions.  Thank you, Jules and Bob for this fabulous music you provided over 40 years ago.
  Because of the songs, it holds up well even after all this time and makes the cartoon version alive and meaningful. How I wish the sheet music of all the tunes and lyrics were offered!! I would want at least 2 or 3 songbooks.
  I recommend this movie highly, especially while children are young and have so much mediocrity and sometimes sleaze thrown at them.  It's still one of our favorite family attractions during the holiday season each year and I watch it several times myself.  It never grows old.