A River Runs Through It fits into the elite category of movies that can be enjoyed by audiences ranging from pubescent boys and girls to nursing home residents.
 The movie owes much of its success to two eye-catching elements: the cinematography and Brad Pitt.
 Set on the banks of Montana's Blackfoot River around World War I, A River Runs Through It tracks two brothers' coming of age. Norman the poet (Craig Sheffer) and Pauley the playboy (Pitt) grow from playful youngsters into scheming teenagers and then become individual adults with only one thing to keep them connected to each other: fly fishing. It is based on Norman Maclean's autobiographical novel of the same name and was released in late 1992.
Unlike many of other movies, A River Runs Through It exists with only an ounce of cheesy romance. Richard Friedenberg's writing revolves around a simple plot and sticks to it. The story focuses on the metamorphosing relationship of siblings from childhood to adulthood and the narration gives it a "The Wonder Years" sort of feel. Each character, no matter how minor, is well-developed. They lead happy-go-lucky lives where everything is fine and dandy, unless you break the golden rule. "In Montana there's three things we're never late for: church, work and fishing," says Paul.
 As much a part of this story as the script and characters is the setting. Sunbeams streaming past lush clouds, through tall trees and falling onto crashing waters are the backdrop of the film. Philippe Rousselot, who won an Oscar for this film's cinematography, captures the simple beauty of nature in the arc of fish leaping over water and a fiery, red-orange sun washing over neverending plains of tall grain.
While most of the people in A River Runs Through It are customary and not very memorable, Pitt's Paul Maclean stands out as the beautiful sore thumb of Missoula, Montana. Aside from the repeated image of his sun-washed chest wading above the clear waters, he transforms to dancing a jig, brawling inside a speak-easy and drowning his worries away over shots of whiskey, to being a mama's boy for a brief second. This is the film that well-deservedly gave Pitt's acting credibility.
 It is no coincidence that Pitt bears a striking resemblance to a young Robert Redford throughout the film. Redford, who directed and co-produced A River Runs Through It, cast himself as the ever-present narrator and, undoubtedly, wants his presence felt in every aspect of the film that is now a classic.
 A River Runs Through It utilizes the best of each film element - from acting to writing to cinematography - to produce a piece enjoyable to a wide audience.