Others have stated it, great movie.  Is there some America bashing, maybe a little.  But what all these people reviewing harp on is a scene in a bar with Danny and Maddy first meeting.  She kind of attacks him for his role in this and he comes back at her with an analogy of how they are in the same business, only she is American so he tells it in relation to her nationality.  Thats pretty much it and that when they first meet a TV is on with the whole Bill Clinton/Monica Lewinsky fiasco going on.

Now, is that America bashing?  Its all in context to what is going on in the story.  Especially the Clinton part.  Thats pretty much there to show 2 things:

1) When this whole RUF, Sierra Leon conflict was going on.  Most people know little about it, let alone when it happened.  This just puts in our minds when this is going on and most people remember roughly where they were in there lives at that time.
2) It also is there to show the viewers at how certain things get more attention than others.  The line was something like this "The world is falling apart and all people care about is BJ's"  Now that was coming from an American journalist in Africa reporting on Blood Diamonds, who knows more of what is going on in the world than most people.  And she wasn't watching this in America, they were watching this in West Africa, so its not like we Americans were the only ones to focus on that.

That all goes down in about 2 minutes, so I am not sure why everyone takes offense to it.  As for the stats they give I don't know if they are accurate, there are diamonds and then there are industrial diamonds, I think they are referring to consumer diamonds.  And if you want to more on this do a little research on the subject.  You will find it was pretty ugly, the diamond business in general is pretty ugly, and in fact diamonds are really not all that rare.  Do some research on DeBeers and see what you find.  I watched a documentary on this conflict before seeing this movie, and I thought it was pretty true to the conflict.

Just my thoughts.