I just saw this on the big screen yesterday and man, they don't make movies like this any more that's for sure. Sure we have realistic fight scenes in Bourne movies, James Bond etc nowadays but I really don't ever intend to be in a position where i am fighting a guy to death so realism like that doesn't appeal to me. Give me over the top 80s action anytime. From start to finish this is just a great movie, with fantasic action, great verbal sparring and one-liners, and terrific direction from one of the greatest action directors, John McTiernan (what a one-two punch - Predator in '87, Die Hard in '88). It's a guy's movie...let's just get that one out of the way. No girl in her right mind is going to sit through this (unless she is sent from heaven!). Total testosterone-fest with enough homo-erotic posturing and cigar-chomping to keep you laughing throughout. That said the suspense element of the movie is never compromised and it's never predictable. It's basically a slasher movie with a sci-fi twist and lots of guns and shooting (lot's of shooting!). It contains probably my favourite action scene in any movie - when they are firing into, and decimating, the woods after the Predator that they cannot see. I remembered it being a long scene, but in the cinema yesterday everybody was in shock with exactly how long it actually was, and there was laughter and cheering throughout. Just a totally crazy scene of Arnie and crew destroying the rain forest and I loved it! They may not have killed the Predator that time but they must have wiped a couple of species from the planet! Alan Silvestri music is excellent throughout and really helps build the atmostphere and tension. It's a lean movie, unlike most of Arnie's movies, and thank god, no cuteness or sensitive side to his character. Forget Terminator 3, they should have got Arnie back to take on Predator again. Hell, even have Arnie vs Predator vs Alien (He beat Superman & Batman in the preliminary round!). I could just imagine Arnie's house at the end of the movie, showing his friends around his trophy room with a Predator and Alien head on the wall. Arnie, you were one of the greatest and I, for one, miss you.