<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0007939MK">The Band Wagon (Two-Disc Special Edition)</a>Almost everything that Fred Astaire dances in can be called a classic.  There isn't another dancer known as well for his style and grace as Fred Astaire who virtually made "The Musical" with Ginger Rogers back in the 30's.  And this one is no exception with leading lady Cyd Charisse especially with there beautiful romantic dance in the Central Park that is noted by many as a favorite.  Some people believe the character Tony Hunter (Fred Astaire) was somehow suppose to represent what was happening to Fred Astaire (somehow feeling like he Tony Hunter was a has-been) in his life however I couldn't imagine anything farther from the truth.  There is a universal appeal of Fred Astaire's light grace and motion is still felt in this film.  You can even see exactly how Fred moves in scene where he dances in slow motion while the rest of the cast dances at normal speed.
  This is a light musical with not the best of plots but it is workable venue for a dancing and singing scenes.  Tony Hunter (Fred Astaire) a "has-been" musical star comes into town to see his playwright friends Lily Marton (delightful Nanette Fabray) and movie husband Lester Marton (as always himself Oscar Levant).  These two have written a play for him, which they want big-shot "artistic" director/producer/star Jeffrey Cordova (Jack Buchanan) a pompous a-hummm, to help run the production.  He changes their little musical comedy into a modernistic Faust insisting on hiring prima ballerina, Gabrielle Gerard (the fabulous Cyd Charisse) as leading lady to Tony.  Of course it's hate at first sight with Gabrielle's and her jealous boyfriend/manger/choreographer bringing even more tension to a tense situation.  The whole combination creates a huge egg.  In the midst of the insanity Tony walks out, Cabrielle is sent to apologize - the beautiful dance in the park ensues - beginning of romance - "the show must go on"  they take back their show creating a series of  creative sometimes innovative musical numbers.
  Some of my favorite musical numbers are Fred Astaire and the shoe shine man "A Shine on My Shoes" (played by an actual shoeshine man who dances that way shining shoes).  Of course the Central Park Dance "Dancing in the Dark", the slow-mo dance, One of my favorites "Triplets" where Fred Astaire is joined with Jack Buchanan and Nanette Fabray  playing triplet babies  who hate each other - this one still gets letters on how'd you do that.  And "That's Entertainment" (which was first introduced by Betty Hutton, Howard Keel & Louis Calhern in "Annie Get Your Gun" a musical about  Annie Oakley) and in this film this song in it's presentation is the title and theme song for 3 more movies.
So in conclusion Two Thumbs up!!!