As far as films go...almost the best movie I have ever seen...well, I am 18, but I suspect it doesn't get any better than this.

  The script, filming, acting etc. are good; but what makes the movie is the content. The only movie I have seen that manages to portray romantic/married love without being maudlin or stupid. The relationship between More and his wife blows me away, especially in the last scene when he is talking about custard and she's screaming and he calls her a lion. It's not a typical movie characterization/etc. I couldn't believe it was a movie.

  Also, it raises the issue of 'one's conscience' and the whole issue of Right/Wrong and to compromise or not to compromise. The movie isn't a pat idealistic 'sass the king and do your thing, be brave'. Rather, all manners of men are shown in contrast; from driveling Rich to fiery nonconformist Will Roper, and all manners of men in between.

  Thomas More doesn't fit either catagory. He's a politician: not a Scottish Covenanter. And neither is the moral "Just follow your conscience and defy authority"...at the beginning of the movie we see Thomas More speak disparagingly of Martin Luther in favor of the 'corrupt' Authorities of the Roman Catholic Church.

  Thomas More, by his principles, 'forced' King Henry to execute him...instead of just assenting to the oath and muttering through his teeth like everyone else.
  And the movie does the same. It doesn't just let us conclude that 'it is right for everyone to follow their consciences'. Thomas More does not simply champion "Freedom of Conscience". Like Henry the VIII we are 'forced' to make our own decision about Thomas More...

  Was he some unbending, deaf to rationalizations, uncompromising to the death fanatic; on par with jihadists who detonate in Israel?

  Or is there really a Truth out there, while all of us are busy swearing the "Succession Oath" of our times, and shaking our heads at misguided fanatics... and live successfuly, and die in our beds?

It makes me wonder.