The movie Long Day's Journey into Night is a triumphant endeavor to portray O'Neill's autobiographical play. The actors do justice with their characters. Katharine Hepburn is simply astounding; she makes Mary Tyrone's morphine addiction seem so convincing. Her acting captivates the audience and envelops them in a cloud of gloom. O'Neill's intended depiction of Mary Tyrone is almost perfectly acted out by Hepburn. It is apparent in the movie that Hepburn's character is nervous about something; Hepburn's entrancing talent brings out the best in Mary Tyrone's despondent character. Hepburn's marvelous work, however, does not overshadow the performances of the actors who play Edmund, Jamie, and Tyrone. Sir Ralph Richardson plays Tyrone and gives a stunning performance; Tyrone's stinginess is perceptible from the way he moves about the room searching for a light bulb to switch off and the manner in which he scrutinizes the amount of whiskey in the bottle. Jason Robards Jr. almost flawlessly portrays the alcoholic Jamie Tyrone; I had not pictured Jamie in any other way. Dean Stockwell's ill-fated Edmund is perhaps one of the best performances I have seen on motion picture.
The movie does an excellent job of establishing an environment of gloom throughout the course of the play; the morbid milieu that the dysfunctional Tyrone family lives in would sadden even the most stoic of men. I was moved to pity for Eugene O'Neill after watching the movie. How did he manage to live in such a miserable atmosphere? One can feel the wretchedness augmenting as the day drearily moves into night. This movie ranks among the best dramas ever filmed and it would move sentimental hearts to tears. I would recommend this movie to those people who believe that life is treating them miserably (Wait till you see this!).  This is a great movie to watch over the weekend (It is over three hours long! Every minute, nevertheless, is worth watching.). I guarantee that the thrilling performances and the direction of the movie will impress you. This movie is saturated with realistic emotions and it gives the viewer a true understanding of why Eugene O'Neill was and is America's greatest playwright.