I disagree with Patrick Moore's quibbles, and am delighted that sound and color recorded over 50 years ago survive so well.
Yes, this version takes minor liberties with the original.  Wilde never mentioned "Ernest" singing "La Donn' e Mobile" in the tub with servants awaiting the final note's fair resounding before rinsing our star (Pavarotti was only 16 at the time, so we must settle for a baritone).  In fact the original initial scene is in Algy's digs; "Ernest" is already dry and dressed, albeit with much the same dialog.  In the film, no nasty solicitor wants to lock "Ernest" up for a trifling 762 Pounds (10 to 15 years' income for Algy's valet Lane) owed for supping if not stomping at the Savoy.  These are the most significant departures, and I did not find them disturbing.  As must be apparent, I sorta enjoyed the tub aria and believe Wilde might have liked it too.
Redgrave, father of Vanessa, Corin and Lynn, was 44, a bit too old to play a man of 29 in the company of a cast that is otherwise of appropriate age.  Again, this is a minor point, especially given his brilliant performance.
I will not repeat others' praise of the performances of the cast beyond saying that in watching the marvelous BBC-TV version, I felt so sorry for its great cast, having to compete with these performances, and extend equal sympathy to Colin Firth &amp; co. in the newly released film.  Even legends Judi Dench (in the new film) and Joan Plowright (in the BBC set) could never say "A HA-and-BA-ag?!" like Edith Evans did.  I admired Plowright for not trying to be Evans, whose delivery of this single line is mentioned on hundreds of web sites.
The costumes are stunning and appropriate to both period and cast. (Does anyone else feel sorry about the Birds of Paradise hacked apart to build the millenery?  Folks didn't worry much about that in 1952, probably even less in 1895, so the headgear is probably authentic, even if counter to modern sensibilities.)
As good as the cast is, most giving the performance best remembered from a career of brilliancies, the real star, of course, is Oscar Wilde, who skewers the British upper crust so deliciously with line after clever priceless line.  Half the lines in this play must have found their way into some collection or other by now.  
This marvelously funny play is also a tragedy because it was Wilde's last great work when it should have been followed by volumes of others.  Soon after its appearance, Wilde was  ruined, villified, amd imprisoned, never saw his children again.  He died poor, friendless, and miserable in a Paris hotel in 1900, his 46th year, five years after "Earnest's" first performance.  What other delightful manifestations of his brilliance were denied us by society's inability to accept the bisexual nature that Wilde could not help?  I'm a big hairy straight guy from a redneck background, but even I know that the most tragic loss of a Bird of Paradise in conjunction with this play was that of Wilde himself.