Ma Vie en Rose is a new-wave film expressing the joys and horrors of a little boy's life when the issue of gender confusion takes over his small, Parisian town. Ludovic, the main character (played by Georges Du Fresne) is convinced that he is meant to be a girl, that the fact he is a boy is simply a biological mistake. As the story progresses, Ludovic finds himself fantasizing about his favorite female character "Pam", who in many cases is viewed by the French as a "Barbie". Her appearances in the film seem to be critiquing society's views on women, being that they are obviously unrealistic (she flies, has the same body type as Barbie, always looks beautiful) and extremely fantastical.  To Ludovic however, Pam is the epitome of what a woman should be. She is viewed by others as a perfect emblem of femininity; skinny, pretty, soft-spoken and kind. In his attempts to dress as a girl, Ludovic tries to act in the same manner as Pam, experimenting with dresses, and make-up. He sees nothing wrong with his desire to be a female, but soon learns that he is not supported in his efforts by his town, or his family. His seemingly friendly, upper-middle class neighborhood does not take to his confusion about gender; the children make fun of him, and the adults' behavior demonstrates that they will not tolerate this. Ludovic does everything he can to suppress his feelings of confusion, even attempting to act like a boy (plays soccer etc.) However, it is simply too difficult, especially after meeting Christine, a little girl who gladly would trade her dress for Ludovic's pants and shirt. Many of the circumstances Ludovic faces in the film are very sad to watch, realizing that this type of response from people is not atypical. The film in fact does a good job of portraying a realistic response that might come from a wealthy, seemingly conservative town, representing an intersection of economic class, and gender identity confusion. The confused child is only more frustrated because nobody believes that this is what he truly wants. Making him feel sorry for his feelings is detrimental to Ludovic, as well as to his family. After being forced to move from their village, and "coming to terms" with Ludovic's true feelings, the family is able to come together and embrace Ludovic for who he his, regardless of whether he is a male or female. I would recommend this film to all those who wish to open their minds to new ideas. It is am amazing film.