I just purchased this DVD and I remembered instantly why I enjoyed this film so much when it came out.  I would just like to answer some of the critiques listed here.

1)  The character of Ch&eacute; was always meant to be a nemesis to Evita, but not the real character as such . In the stage production that I saw, it was a man with the typical beret and machine gun singing to the side of the action.  It would have been ridiculous and historically inaccurate to portray Ch&eacute; as such in the movie version.  Ch&eacute; Guevara was still a medical student when Eva died.  I think it is very effective to blend Ch&eacute; into various characters because it represents the silent and not so silent opposition to the Per&oacute;n Revolution.  The only time the two characters meet for real interaction is when Evita is having delusions.  The song argued in that moment perfectly clashes Ch&eacute;'s "idealism" with Evita's "realism."  Ch&eacute; is always there in some form, yet Evita is oblivious to his presence, brushes him off with a quick lyric or purposely chooses to ignore him.  This adds a metaphysical dimension to the plot as if Evita were increasingly self-justifying her growing power as a simple tool to help the impoverished.

2)  The soundtrack to the movie is not an operatic stage version but the songs are presented using the operatic techniques of repetition.  This was done on purpose, not due to a lack of creativity.

3)  When I saw this off off broadway, the people that were with me were straining to understand the singing beside the fact that they had no idea about the history of post WWII Argentina.  I don't think they enjoyed it as much as they wanted to let on.

4)  Madonna sings very well and is completely understood.  I had the argument with some friends that heard the soundtrack and thought she was singing off key on the last couple of tracks...  Ummm.  Not really.  She was about ready to pass away in those scenes which in the movie are close-ups.  It would have been ridiculous to have anyone belt out the lyrics in such an intimate moment before passing on.  It sounds like she is dying, because she is...

5)  The cinematography is simply amazing.  The funeral scene at the very beginning was incredible as well as the scene where Eva puts her foundation to work.  Pictures of the real Evita meeting the Pope and others perfectly match the costumes used in the movie.

6)  For me, the main focus of the movie is the strategy of propaganda and how it can dominate reason.  The mystery lies in how much of the persuasion was authentically from the heart of the Per&oacute;ns and how much of it was naked manipulation.  The movie captures both aspects and yet leaves them unanswered...Much like the historical analysis of Eva Per&oacute;n.

This movie is an awesome production ...