From the opening panoramic scenes of a seaport village in southern Italy where Wehrmacht soldiers are enjoying some r&amp;r, to their long train ride through Russian farmland to their ultimate destiny in Stalingrad, we  are witness to the beginnings of a visually stunning and spectacularly well  made film. Director Vilsmaier's cameras are always at ground level to  establish intimacy.
The attention to detail is also remarkable. Authentic  weapons, uniforms, vehicles, setting and buildings, you name it. In this  way, it is very similar to both Das Boot and Saving Private Ryan. Some  folks question the use of newer T-34/85 Russian tanks in the film as  opposed to the older T-34/76 models. I think it should be understood that  the Germans, both on offense and in retreat, destroyed Russian armor in  great numbers, and it is unlikely that older serveable tanks have survived.  The T-34/85 was in use long after WW2 ended.
What lets the film down  somewhat is its portrayal of German senior officers as sadistic martinets,  bereft of any humanity or compassion. Yet the Russians are portrayed often  as helpless, innocent and frightened victims, quite an oversimplification  considering the reality of the Eastern Front during WW2.
But scenes of  soldiers caught in the frigid, snowy landscapes of Stalingrad are  unforgetable. It cecomes evident that it was the winter, the worst in 100  years, that defeated the Germans, not the Russians. The ending of the film  with Fritz and Von Witzland huddled and dying in the driving snow is  profoundly sad.
Just some comments about the DVD. All you get are basic  features; theatrical trailer, brief bio's and language selection. The video  quality is ok, but not remarkable. My biggest gripe is that, considering  what you pay for this DVD, you cannot view the scene number you are  watching or the time elapsed on your DVD player.
All nitpicking aside,  this is still an excellent war film and should be a welcome addition to  anyone's war film collection.