The one star rating isn't for the movie.  Xanadu is what it is and I'm one of the people who love it.  And because of that, I was really excited to discover they were putting out a special edition DVD.  The original DVD only had the trailer as a bonus feature and between the movie's status as a cult classic and the success of the Broadway show I figured this edition would give it the treatment it deserved.

Boy, was I wrong.

Yes, it's cool that the DVD comes with a CD of the soundtrack.  But most of the people who own the DVD have likely had the soundtrack for years.  So now we have 2.

And the bonus features?  The original trailer, a photo gallery, and one documentary.  That's it.  Which wouldn't even be too bad if the documentary was a good one.  But it's not, not by a long shot.

For starters, there are no Olivia interviews in the documentary.  I find it hard to believe that she wouldn't have sat down with the filmmakers for a few hours, but she's nowhere to be found except in the clips from the movie.  And the clips from the movie?  Apparently they weren't able to license the music because that's nowhere to be heard either.  In it's place is just a bunch of generic synth music that wouldn't be out of place in an E True Hollywood Story.

And the real kicker?  There isn't a single mention of Michael Beck in the entire featurette.  How on earth do you do a documentary on a movie and completely ignore the male lead?  It's just mind boggling.

All I can conclude is that this feature wasn't specifically produced for the DVD, but it was something they just found and threw in.

It's such a shame.  There could have been a wealth of extras on this disc to satisfy the Xanadu diehards - a feature on the success of the music, a feature on the fashions, interviews with Olivia and Michael, a history of how the movie evolved into a cult favorite, deleted scenes, outtakes, karaoke versions of the musical sequences, something about the Broadway show and the previous stage versions......

But instead we get a photo gallery, the trailer from the first DVD, the CD that we all already have, and a single lame documentary.

What a missed opportunity.