Tales From The Crypt is hands down one of the greatest television shows ever made. No question. Each season of the show had it's own atmoshere and season 3 stands as one of the best seasons. Hands down.

Episodes

Loved To Death - Amusing first episode and honestly a great way to start this terrific season. Mariel Hemmingway stars as a woman who after drinking a love potion has an unstoppable urge for "love". It's funny and weird. I loved it. Great way to start. 3.5 out of 4

Carrion Death - Classic episode about a criminal on the run from a cop as a hungry vulture flies above. The ending is gory and disturbing. A truly brilliant episode. 4 out of 4

The Trap - Maybe the funniest episode of the set features a husband and wife who are in dept and fake the husbands death for quick cash. Plenty of twists and laughs here. Michael J Fox directs and even has a cameo. Entertaining as can be. 3.5 out of 4

Abra Cadaver - Memorable episode about a guy getting revenge against his doctor brother for a prank gone wrong. I made it sound unoriginal but it's not. It gruesome and different. Also well directed. Like it alot. Another must see. Great. 3.5 out of 4

Top Billing - One of the finest of the set about an actor who will do anything to star in the lead of a very stange take on Hamlet.  It builds nicely to a shocking climax. Jon Lovitz is great as usual. 4 out of 4

Dead Wait - Whoopi Goldberg stars! A terrific little horror tale featuring crime and voodoo on a tropical island. Well done all in all. Season 3 really has so many standouts. 3.5 out of 4

The Reluctant Vampire - IMO the weakest episode up to this point but it is quite loved by Crypt fans. It concerns a vampire who hates to who hates to get blood the way vampires are supposed to. It's a funny episode on a whole and the acting is good. 3 out of 4

Easel Kill Ya - Amazing episode in every way.  Tim Roth stars as a struggling artist who kills for the sake of art. Tim Roth is fantastic here. Totally memorable with a typical Tales finish. 4 out of 4

Undertaking Palor - There are so many classics here! Another Tales masterpiece. This one is about a group of friends who realize something is just not right about the local mortuary.  John Glover stars as the villain. Top notch episode in every way. 4 out of 4

Mournin Mess - A reporter is down on his luck and finally has a story when homeless people are turning up dead. But this is Tales From The Crypt so ya know what to expect. Brilliant and suspenseful. Works in so many ways. The finale is perfect and unpredictable. Keeps you guessing. 4 out of 4

Split Second - Another winner but at this point I am sure you are not surprised. A woman marries a lumberjack but when a she begins to seduce another lumberjack.... well let's say it does not end well for anyone. The finish is gruesome and easily one of the most mmemorable finishes of the season. Great performances. 4 out of 4

Deadline - The only clunker of the set. Ugh why did there have to be one? This is just weak. But it's still not bad.  A reporter has to find a good murder story to save his job. Predictable and it never really goes anywhere. by the end you say.... wait.. that's it? Meh whatever. 2 out of 4

Spoiled - Funny episode though it borderlines on stupid a few times. But I think that was the point (?) . This plays as a real life Soap Opera. A woman cheats on her doctor husband with the cable guy Able! It leads to an absurd comic finish. May work better as a comic. But fun episode. 3 out of 4

Yellow - Masterful episode. A WW1 General tries to prove his soldier son is not yellow (a coward).  I did not like this the first time. But I was expecting a horror tale not a full on drama. I watched it a 2nd time and I was WRONG. Brilliant. It's sad, the performances led by a Emmy nominated performance from Kirk Douglas are top notch. The music is great, the opening is great. It's a powerful episode. 4 out of 4

A brilliant season. A must own.