I can't believe the "negative" reviews I'm reading here.  These people liked "Dawn of the Dead" but abhors this?  Did I watch the same movie?

First, enough with the comparison with "Cloverfield" and "Blair Witch Project."  Whoever even tries to make a connection/comparison obviously did not get this movie.  Both "Cloverfield" and "Blair Witch" ARE pretentious garbage whose only purpose is to scare its audience.  AND FAILS, by the way.

Romero's zombie films--on the other hand--are "social commentary" first, then "scare-the-hell-out-of-everyone" second.  "Diary of the Dead" is basically "Dawn of the Dead" in a modernized re-telling.  The origin of the "zombies" was never really explained because it did not matter; the focus of the film is HOW the society has abruptly decayed.

Romero did use hand-held cameras but it was nicely done.  "Cloverfield" and "BWP" had the same attempt but it was pitifully executed: it was done for the sake of inducing seizures.

As far as character development...or the absence thereof as some reviewers noted here.  Well, guys, given the manner of screenplay, how would you have a complex character development that has a timeframe of less than 72 hours?  What, you needed flashbacks?  I wouldn't say there is ZERO character development...but I can't explain it without ruining it for the rest who hasn't seen it.  I would say something though: you wouldn't notice the romantic tension between Tony and Debra unless you really pay attention.

I do agree that the effects are poorly done, though.  It could have been better, but perhaps it's going to cost more money.

"Are we worth saving?"  pretty much sums it up.  Is it preachy?  No, it is not.  I mean, jeez...it's a ZOMBIE FILM for crying out loud.  Romero DID want the audience to learn something from it and not just scare them...why is he labeled "preachy" all of a sudden?

And as far as the inevitable comparison with the brilliant "28 Days Later" (not the stupidfest that is "28 Weeks Later").  Well, to me, the ending of "Diary" made much more sense compared to the "fairy tale" ending of "28."