Being I could not rent this for the longest time and having a five year old daughter who loves Disney movies - especially the princess movies - I thought I'd take a chance and get B&TB - Enchanted Christmas.

This movie has very little to do with Christmas on any level.  No Santa, No birth of Jesus.  Christmas is just the impetus for a darker plot.  The story focuses on the Christmas season just before the Beast "learned to love."

The movie is 50% dark material with an evil pipe organ, Maestro Forte, the court composer who does not want the enchantment spell broken.  Forte considers himself the Beast's best friend, and he uses creepy, dark opera music...ala Phantom of the Opera style...to keep the Beast in a defeated mental state to perpetuate his prominent position within the castle as the Beast's confidant.

Belle threatens Forte's position and plan with her strong will to want Christmas, and goes behind the Beast's back to decorate and prepare for Christmas with the other enchanted characters.

Forte, voiced by Tim Curry, does a great job at scaring the be-jeebers out of the audience, which was not the expected viewing for a family movie night during the Christmas season.  We're not talking about the Abominable Snow Monster in "Rudolph the Red-nosed Reindeer" or the Winter Warlock in "Santa Clause Is Coming to Town" in the classic Christmas animations that children...and their parents...have loved for years.  Forte's creepy music and scary faces are more reminiscent of the evil Queens in "Snow White" and "Sleeping Beauty" both of which the audience is expecting in the natural story-line conflict.

This is not an encouraging movie for small/young children.  It's not a fun Christmas movie.  With the exception of the minor storyline setup of Bell writing a story of hope for the Beast as a Christmas gift, the movie has little Christmas value.  The storyline is trite in comparison with the original B&TB or other Disney titles.

As for this movie, I would only recommend it for older children/families who might like it for the conflict storyline value like "Snow White" and "Sleeping Beauty."

If you are wanting an uplifting; encouraging; simple story focusing on the Christmas season - stories about love, forgiveness, hope, elves, Santa, Jesus, or just a Christmas feel-good movie like "It's a Wonderful Life" - this movie is NOT it.

This movie could have been so much more.  We were all VERY disappointed.  This one won't stay in our collection.  This movie would have been better remaining the Disney vault.