I am not a movie fan.  When I watch a movie with my wife, it is usually without enthusiasm, and I generally find myself sneaking peeks at my watch every few minutes, calculating how much longer the movie will run.  Prior to seeing the story of "Hachi", Richard Gere meant little to me.  His portrayal of the master of "Hachi", though, was moving, sweet, and ingratiating.  Mr. Gere is the most prominent actor in a fine cast, which helps to make this movie transformational.  The story depicts with love and sensitivity the strong and indelible bond between man and his eternal best friend, the dog.  Hachi is a loving akita who is loyal to the character played by Mr. Gere, seeming to always remember that it was Gere who rescued the lost pup at a train station.  Originally intending to find the rightful owner of the dog, something which did not ever happen despite significant initial effort, the two quickly become inseparable, devoted companions.  Theirs was a devotion which transcended death.  Following the sudden and untimely passing of the character played by Mr. Gere, Hachi continued to wait at the train station at which he would greet his master when he returned home from work each day.  Certain scenes and premises are implausible, such as when years after his death, the master's widow returns to the area the two had lived in together, surprised to see Hachi at his daily perch in the town square, as he had done for years.  The bittersweet and moving reunion between the two renders the implausability of the scene unimportant.  This movie is all the more powerful in consideration of the fact that it is based on a true story from Japan, in which Hachi lived in the 1920's and 1930's.  Hachi is honored with a statue on the site of his daily vigil, and is memorialized by Japanese dog-lovers every year to this day.  The story of Hachi is one that I cannot get out of my mind, and it shall always be dear to me.  At a time in which our world is becoming increasingly coarse and uncivil, how wonderful to find an uplifting and inspirational movie like this, and it is rated 'G'!  Everyone who loves and is sensitive to animals, everyone with a heart and soul, should see it.  You will be glad you did.  You should be prepared to be overcome with emotion.