This is a remarkable documentary and I'm grateful to Burns for introducing a new generation to the astounding Jack Johnson. It's an amazing American story, reminding us of how virulent, overt, and institutionalized racism was during this era (most of the film focuses on the peak years of Johnson's career, around 1910-1911). The footage is fascinating.

The other reviews have said it well. Here are just a few comments:

1) Many voice-overs seem to be Johnson's own words. If so, Johnson was not only a brillant pugilist, but a wonderful, eloquent philosopher as well. Late in the film Burns mentions Johnson's autobiography rather ironically, characterizing it as a poor-seller in which Johnson seeks to show himself in an unrealistically positive light. So I do wonder where the voice-over verbiage comes from. The autobiography? Was it ghost-written or Johnson's own hand?

2)As you watch the film, you can't help but feel that Johnson is a great man. As a matter of fact, several commentators talk about Johnson as being the epitome of 'a man': he's the whole man, the paragon of manliness, defines masculinity, etc.' They do not stint in their admiration, and given the context of the film it's hard not to agree with them.....EXCEPT for one big issue.

Johnson beat his wife.

One wife (and he had several wives, and concurrent girlfriends) was beaten so badly she was put in the hospital for a week. This is the wife who is socially isolated and sequestered (confined to rooms above Johnson's club), because she was "unstable." In fact, she eventually killed herself. Burns talks about her loneliness. He says her life cannot have been easy. But every mention about her situation seems to follow soon with words about her poor mental state.

Seems kind of like a "chicken or egg" scenario: maybe she was unstable because of the abuse.

After the severe beating that put his wife in the hospital, we hear about Johnson's pain and repressed anguish. After his wife kills herself, we hear about how Johnson cries.

It's so easy to want to make excuses for Johnson who is fabulous in many ways. But I was really put off by how the context and sequencing of the film totally soft-pedals Johnson's abuse of his wife.

You should still see this film - it makes Don King and crew seem tame. But shame on Burns for his relativism. As punishment, he should have to make a documentary on women's emancipation.