Good Fellas is a movie with everything working for it. Taking in consideration for the director, actors, movie crew, script, editing, and what ever else you can look at in order to develop and over all critic a movie; there is no wonder to why this movie is a favorite among millions.

The five stars rating is a personal opinion based not just on different aspects required to put a movie together (crew, editing, etc.), but style and other personal likes.

Firstly, the movie is based on actual events. Some may waive this in saying it is not important as it does not mean whether or not everything happened as in the movie. Perfect example would be "the social network". A movie based on a single event in someone's life, yet depicting that moment in the classic Hollywood fashion in over exaggerating as well as substituting actuality with fiction. However, in comparison "GoodFellas" (if one was interested in historical facts) is not just one step, but several steps closer to the actual "Henry Hill" (names are swapped for fictional names).

Beyond the above social interest in why a person may join the mob (and like this movie), there is still a fantastic romantic view provided along with it's harsh reality. A difficult task made to look easy. With it; a person easily slips into the story as if he/she was actually there. Only made possible by the production crew and everyone else who worked on the film.

"Good Fellas" was written, directed, and edited wonderfully which could be used for up coming movie enthusiasts, or to just sit back and relax for pure entertainment value. Having owned a copy for a few years, I have watched it close to 25 times if not more. Clearly it is a favorite.

Which is why I added a fifth star. Normally I am comfortable in saying that a movie is four stars as most are. Not everything goes perfect in creating a movie, and even after post production there could still be little pieces or trivial aspects that do not work or seem to be off. "Good Fellas" is no way different, but remains easier to view. Adding to reasons why it is so easy to watch again and again.