Smell that?  That's the smell of a once great television show going straight down the crapper.  Thanks to an unbelievably awful season 3-there's really little point left in following the once brilliant "Heroes".  Over the course of this extremely disappointing season, Heroes devolved from a well written, exciting, "must see" television show into a frustrating exercise in viewer patience.  Despite the hope that things would improve after a sub-par Season 2, the exploits of the so called "Heroes" (who really do nothing that even remotely resembles anything heroic) yielded nothing but disappointment "weak" after excruciating "weak".

  The first volume of Season 3-"Villains" was excessively convoluted and drawn out-sans anything of any real substance happening.  Characters also seemed to completely change personalities and flip flop their allegiances on a dime for no other reason than to suit the writer's purposes.

  Despite my hopes for an improved second volume with "Fugitives" things only got worse.  With a premise that smacked of the completely ridiculous (Nathan's wildly out of left field decision to betray all of his peers and condemn them all to imprisonment for starters) "Fugitives" became a hard pill to swallow in every way imaginable.  Despite a noticeable attempt to improve the show and "right the ship" in the last few episodes, the silly and hard to accept premise kept getting in the way.  With the exception of the episode set in the "Coyote Sands" desert (which was one of the few watchable episodes of the season) "Fugitives" like "Villains" was a total wash.

  What I found most disappointing about Season 3 of "Heroes" however wasn't its silly and laughably-bad writing, or even its complete lack of direction-instead it was how the writers took some of most iconic  and likable characters in television history (Noah Bennet, Mohinder Suresh, Peter Patrelli, Matt Parkman) and rendered them completely unlikable.  Noah was consistently a two-faced jerk for the majority of the season and Suresh a whiney b*tch determined to work for the bad guy.  Peter, the show's "anchor" went from being the most morally grounded "hero" on the show to a selfish allegiance-swapping loser with no honor at all and Matt finally revealed himself as a totally useless waste of a character.  Even Claire was not immune with her character's "all-talk, no-action" stance on things.  Outside of Hiro and Ando-by season's end there were no character's left who's stories I really cared about.  And even the dynamic duo's story itself seemed to grow more silly and weak by the episode.  (Aren't they running out of ideas by now how to keep Hiro from having powers?)  And it absolutely blows my mind that the show insists on bringing Ali Larter's characters (all five hundred of them) back to the show time and time again.  I know (or knew rather) a lot of Heroes viewers who absolutely hate Nikki/Jessica/Tracy/etc.-this one included.  Why on earth do they keep bringing her back when she has yet to serve any real purpose but to annoy so completely?

  I find it interesting that the next volume in the series is called "Redemption".  With ratings plummeting and stories getting more silly, ridiculous & repetitious each season, and faithful viewers dropping off right and left, I hope there's truly some deeper meaning in that title....