"Sunday In the Park With George" is a fascinating and very moving study on how thrilling but hard the life of an artist can be: how exciting, frusturating but ultimately rewarding the journey toward "getting through to something new" is, and also how painful it is to sacrifice an emotional connection in personal relationships in order to do so.  Stephen Sondheim's score is, as usual, the heart of the show; although it is often fragmented and dissonant, much like the pointillist style of Georges Seurat (the French painter whose life and attempts to create the painting "A Sunday Afternoon On the Island of La Grande Jette" are the focus of the first half of the show) and like many of SOndheim's other scores, it still is highly emotional and moving and there are songs of incredible beauty such as "Finishing the Hat," "Sunday," and "Children and Art."  There are also some highly delightful moments such as the title song, "The Day Off," in which Georges imitates not one but two dogs, and "Everybody Loves Louis," as well as a final lovely moment of inspiration in "Move On."  While the actual dialogue between the chracters is rather wooden, James Lapine's book on the whole does almost as good a job as Sondheim does of exploring the good and bad facets of an author's life and also has many colorful ideas on what the many people in the "La Grande Jette" painting might have been like.  This taping of a performance of the original Broadway production, with almost all of the original cast, is a very valuable record of Lapine's highly effective direction, the fascinating set, and the wonderful performances which should be cherished.  While frankly Mandy Patankin (As Seurat and, in the second act, his confused lasermaker-sculptor great-grandson) and Bernadette Peters (As Seurat's beautiful but frusturated mistress Dot and, in Act 2, their elderly child and Patankin's gradnmother!) were both in better voice on the original cast album, but still they both do wonderfully in both their roles; Peters in particular shines.  The supporting cast (All of whom play two roles in each act) is also great, with particular standouts being Barbara Bryne and Dana Ivey in the first act, and Brent Spiner in the second.  All in all a wonderful record of one of Sondheim's most personal and affecting shows.  Highly recommended!