The movie "Red Planet" truly does stand the test of time, and quite well. The picture quality, sound quality, filming techniques, and special effects all certainly look spectacular, even by current "decade" later standards. All actors involved turn in an excellent performance quality, with Val Kilmer, Carrie Anne Moss, and Tom Sizemore being near their height of stardom at the point in which this film was created. Terence Stamp delivers a very "classy" performance, and Benjamin Bratt was never better than in this particular film. This movie also displays Simon Baker handily portraying a somewhat emotionally conflicted character, in one of his earlier U.S. based film roles. This film, "Red Planet", has an excellent, even if somewhat predictable story which progresses in a very solid and firm fashion, and leaves the viewer with a very conclusive ending. You will not find yourself "wondering" as to what the movie was truly about when the final credits roll. This is truly one of the most underrated, high quality production Science Fiction films of the past 20 years, and genuinely deserves a second look, or perhaps a first look if you have yet to push the "play" button on this one. The basic story description offered by Amazon, as well as the other reviews, seems to be "spot-on", and so I will politely refrain from simply rehashing what has already been clearly explained.

I have yet to view the Blu-Ray release, but given the spectacular picture and sound quality of the original widescreen DVD release (2001), as well as the secondary DVD release (2010), I would have to imagine that the typical Blu-Ray quality of excellence would apply. Please note, that there are two different aspect ratios available in standard "DVD" format release. The 2001 dated DVD offers a spectacular 2.35 to 1 format widescreen transfer, with excellent sound as well. The 2010 DVD release offers a 1.77 to 1 format transfer, also listed as "widescreen" in the data details. The 2001 dated DVD looks and sounds flawless when played with a nice upscaling player, and when viewed on a decent quality HDTV. EXCELLENT!!!

If you have yet to view this movie, buy a "nice" and "inexpensive" copy of the DVD (I prefer the 2001 DVD release, 2.35 to 1), and enjoy. If it turns out to be one of your Sci-Fi favorites, you can always upgrade to an additional Blu-Ray copy, later.

GOOD LUCK, . . . HAPPY MOVIE WATCHING!!!!!!