I give all the Connery films 5 stars, but that's a topic for another discussion.

What I wanted to do was to offer some clarification on all these "new" versions.  (Maybe this is already common knowledge, but here goes anyway.)  I recently bought the new "widescreen" version of Thunderball, and also the 2-disc Ultimate version of You Only Live Twice, (which only seems to be for sale by Amazon Marketplace sellers).

The 2-disc single-movie offerings by Amazon Marketplace sellers are from the new "Ultimate" box sets that the sellers are breaking up and selling off as individual movies.  These each come in a slim case with 2 discs (1 for the movie, and 1 for the special features).

The "widescreen" versions (of which only Goldfinger, Thunderball, The Spy Who Loved Me, For Your Eyes Only, License to Kill, and Goldeneye are currently available) come in a regular-size case, and the disc is the same as disc #1 from the Ultimate sets (in other words, you get the restored movie, but no special features except an optional commentary track). My Thunderball DVD came with an insert that pictured all 20 DVDs, and indicated that the rest will be coming soon.

The cover artwork is almost identical for these 2 versions.  For easy identification, on the 1-disc regular-case DVDs, the bottom panel gray/black montage has the white words "James Bond" along with a crest, while the 2-disc movies taken from the Ultimate box sets have that plus the words "Ultimate Edition" in gold.

A few days ago, I saw a review of either the widescreen Thunderball or Goldfinger DVD where the reviewer complained that there were no special features included.  That's because all the features (except optional in-movie commentary) are packed on the 2nd disc (which is only in the Ultimate package).

So, if you just want specific movies, without having to buy a whole box set, you can save yourself some money by choosing these "widescreen" versions which Amazon is selling for $10-12 (as long as you don't need the special features).  Otherwise, you'll need to pony up $20+ per movie to the Marketplace sellers.