Ahem. Actually, I happen to be one of those people who know the actual story "too well", and I think I am perfectly justified in rating the show the way I do. I don't deny that it was well-filmed, and that the acting was good, but, you see, what's the use of that when the characters  which are being acted are so callow and unfaithful? The show had perfectly  gruesome scripting. The thing that irked me the most about  this show (and we are not even talking about the casting) is the total  disrespectfulness which it showed towards Hugo's book. Accuracy has nothing  to do with it (boy, if I went on that part of it we'd be here until next  year). I mean to say, what is a person expected to think of a show titled  "Les Miserables" which has got NO focus on les miserables in it  (unless you count the fictitious and totally improbable queues of people  lining up to get food from a wanted man who is just asking to be  identified), and which actually goes out of its way to make the audience  laugh [I watched this in a cinema, so I know] at the very things that Hugo  was trying to make his readers see were tragic? Just one example: The  Champmathieu (and he isn't called that in the show) courtroom scene.  Everyone was laughing at poor Champmathieu. THIS IS NOT THE WAY THINGS ARE  SUPPOSED TO BE! And what was so great about the characterisation? The  actors did the best they could, but in characters so flimsy, how could the  show work? Look, the audience is actually left with the impression that  Javert is the bad guy! Did you know that in the book there is NO bad guy,  least of all Javert, and the only "evil" characters are  Thenardier and Montparnasse? (and by the way, the way Marius was stalking  Cosette in this version, he should have played MontP.) Les Miserables was a  book with a moral, a book which played on the deeper strains of human  compassion. In comparison the film is a parody. And obviously it was trying  to rely mainly on three things to help it sell. Sex, violence and camp. I'm  sorry if I have offended anyone, though; these views are purely my own, and  if you would like to express views to the contrary, you could contact me  perhaps.