A perfect representation of the struggles that all people face, John Sayles' "Lone Star" balances differing views on gender, race, and the age gap between generations. Using a non-linear story line, Sayles is able to jump back and forth between several tense relationships and situations that are occurring in the same town with ease. "Lone Star" takes into account the issues that numerous characters face. The film takes into account the stereotypical struggle between mother and daughter and father and son on many generation levels. Not only does the movie touch on difficult familial problems, but within the confines of the family relationships the question of race and cultural backgrounds also come into play. Border crossings, interracial relationships, and prejudice in general provide most of the story line for the movie. Sayles provides his viewers with the opportunity to witness prejudices and the power of the human ability to overcome such barriers on many different levels. He presents his audience with many stereotypes. For example, there are black people who are in a bar and get into a gun fight, a police officer when makes generalizations about a Mexican man, and the divide between parents of different races on how their children should be educated and with what information they should be provided. The story of the movie is constructed around one central character and through the people that he meets and the relationships that he develops the story branches out to uncover several more stories that depict a similar struggle under a different veil. There is the story of an Army Colonel who is at odds with his father, his son, and in turn himself. Into this relationship falls the issue of being black and how each generation has had to face it differently. There is the story of a Mexican schoolteacher who is up against her all too assimilated mother and is also dealing with her son who doesn't care about his education. The woman's mother is also dealing with her own issues concerning border crossing and the issues of being a Hispanic woman in America. Finally there is the story of the town's white sheriff and his search to expose the real life of his father, a legend in the community, a man whom he did not get along with. There are dialogues in the film which represent the issues of race at hand. A black woman soldier refers to America as "their country" and a Mexican woman who takes pride in being an American is constantly reminding the workers in her Mexican restaurant to "speak English". In the end, love conquers all and people's ability to have sympathy and understand allows reconciliation and leaves the viewer with the sense that all will be ok for the characters.