Wow. Where do I begin? If you wonder why I gave this movie two stars it's only because I am a big Kim Basinger fan and I like Lukas Haas too. Everything else deserves less than one star but I decided to be generous. This was one of the most ridiculous so-called thrillers I've ever seen in my life. It wasn't crafty. It wasn't clever. It wasn't mysterious, and the only thing frightening was that someone actually thought this needed to be a movie. Why inflict such pain on the innocent movie lovers of the world?

We start off with Della (Basinger) who is supposed to be an abused wife. The only evidence of this we see is her husband (Craig Scheffer, why he's still getting parts I have no idea), yelling at Della about cleaning up the house. He jacks her up and this is supposed to convince us that Della is a battered wife. Please. So Della goes out on Christmas Eve to get some wrapping paper and all hell breaks lose. And I mean for the audience as well because the film goes downhill with every turn to the point where you'd wish she'd just go back to the house and call it a night so we can go on with our lives.

During her outing, Della is confronted by four thugs. She's left a note on their car about them taking up two parking spaces. This was the biggest question mark to me in the whole movie. HOW THE HELL DID THEY KNOW DELLA WAS THE ONE WHO LEFT THE NOTE? No one was in the car when she left it! Yet these guys knew it was her? Come on! This group who I nicknamed the Mickey Mouse club because they were about as intimidating as four little girls fighting over a Barbie doll, decides to teach Della a lesson. Lukas Haas (who I can't believe would even think of being in this mess) plays Chuckie the so-called leader of this "gang". Please. Chuckie is aided by an Asian gangmember, a black gangmember, and a Hispanic gangmember. Yes it's the Junior United Nations. This was the most unrealistic part of the film. Not only was it laughable to believe all of these guys were supposed to be tough, but you mean you have a black and a Hispanic in the group and the white dude is the leader? On top of that I couldn't figure out why Chuckie who is thirty years old is hanging around these "kids" or are we supposed to believe that Haas is a teen? If so I wouldn't be surprised with the BS we were forced to believe in this film.

So after Della witnesses this crew killing a security guard she's thrust into fighting for her life. The movie turns into a bad replica of Judgment Night except this film isn't even in that movie's league. The gang chases Della through the woods. Yeah the woods. She's in the Inner city one minute and five minutes later she is in the woods? Okay.

This movie was horrible! We're supposed to buy Della as being smart but she does the dumbest things. Instead of using every opportunity to get away from the four dummies, she sits around and listens in on their extremely loud conversations. She takes time to reminisce about her kids, even pees, anything instead of getting her butt outta dodge! The smart thing for Della to have done would have been to hide somewhere and wait for daylight. It was the woods! No way they'd find her but no, she runs around in the woods as loud as she can. What was so pitiful was how it did not matter how long Della took off before the dummies found out she was gone, she always ended up in their sights. And it's hard to believe that Della couldn't get away from the idiots seeing how Chuckie can light up the entire woods with his flashlight and he yells her name every two minutes. Obviously Della is dumber than we think because she gets warning after warning that the dummies are close to her, yet never gets away.

The beginning was boring. The middle was horrid and the end makes you wanna contemplate the cast's murder or your own suicide. We have to sit through a very bad monologue by Chuckie (I assume to show us his good side, as if we care). Chuckie decides to use his charms to persuade Della to come out of hiding. Oh yes that's the big thing! Instead of Della getting her butt out of the woods while Chuckie's talking, she's sitting behind a tree trunk, listening! She's listening instead of using this as a time to get away. After Chuckie's hour-long speech, he comes onto Della and by our disgust, Della decides to seduce Chuckie and from that point on I'm convinced this movie was a comedy the entire time. It's so unbelievable with Della and Chuckie that you wonder if the film is actually trying to overlook the fact that Basinger is thirty years older than Haas and old enough to be his mother. Yet while they are kissing and fondling, it's like the filmmakers want us to forget how it's so unbelievable that these two would go down this route. It didn't make any sense. The ending alone delivered more laughs than a Saturday Night Live episode. After that you spend your time pulling out your toenails with pliers, hoping it ends soon and finally it does.

I'd give it five stars if it were a comedy. Unfortunately it wasn't.