I beg to differ with the previous reviewer. Firstly, the young and very charismatic Charlie Hunnam CARRIES the film.  That's
taking into account the ASTONISHINGLY impressive cast of practically every working actor in the UK.  This young actor should not unfairly have his great performance commented upon in any way as relates to how he looks.  That is unjust.  The boy was superb and is a star in the making.  Brilliantly emotive, striking just the balance between angelic hero, and strong force to be reckoned with, his was the strongest performance in the film.
That said, the rest of the performances were just as noteworthy, especially Jim Broadbent, the vastly underrated Timothy Spall, (if you want to see another overlooked GEM, buy Still Crazy on DVD now while it's still available), Edward Fox in a key supporting role, and, providing some much needed comic relief, the inspired performances of Alan Cumming and Nathan Lane.  JAMIE BELL deserves an Oscar nod for this MOST SUBTLE OF PERFORMANCES of what must surely be a difficult part to nail down.  
Naturally, Christopher Plummer is superb and flawless as ever, he wouldn't have it any other way, and only he can make this truly evil, vile character sympathetic.
The plot is Dickens of course, full of subplot, subcontext, dead-on characterization, and moral meaning.  This is my favourite Dickens tale, one of family, and what constitutes family, and loyalty, and most of all, strength of character.  It's got it all.  RUN TO SEE IT.  Please do not be swayed by all the drivel that is out there this season, with a few exceptions, (that means you, Mr. Spielberg).
These quality movies need to be seen, so that they will continue to be made.  And we do need films like this to prevent our childrens heads from turning to mush by all the horrid material that is out there.  So please let's all see this movie, and enjoy it with our kids who are over 10 or so. (Very sad at times, and not quite sure younger children won't be TOO saddened by these parts.  There was much sniffling and blowing of young noses during our New Years Eve viewing).
BUT ALL IN ALL, SUPERB QUALITY, PRODUCTION VALUES, WONDERFUL RACHEL PORTMAN SCORE, AS ALWAYS, GORGEOUS CINEMATOGRAPHY, AND ALL AROUND EXCELLENT IN EVERY WAY.  
If the mass market moviegoer can't appreciate this type of film, more's the pity, but there's always XXX for those people, and
people of taste should see this one.  Happy Viewing and Happy New Year to all !!