1960's Space Genre,a trip back to 1977, where we ponder the question, was even the moon landing a fake? This film was sponsored by Sir Lew Grade, financier for the Gerry Anderson Supermarionation Series & Space 1999. They knew about science fiction and suspensefull films ,This film shows, they still maintain the standards for exceptional sci-fi suspense. While it kept the premise of space travel,launched on Saturn 5 Rockets and in 1979, even James Bond went to space on a shuttle craft,still the prospect of a trip to mars is way out there ,since no current propulsion systems can do so in a short period of time, it will seem impossible. The Zero-X, a wild concoction of a space craft took Marionette men to Mars in Captain Scarlet and it was more believeable. Aside all that, the cast held up well, even O.J. and the story line keeps your attention during a heated chase across 3 points of the compass ,across all places, a desert. When our three astronauts decide to escape, after thier families watch in horror of the failure of a heat shield, during re-entry and NASA writes them off, it's expected but not really known, that the plane they stole runs out of fuel during flight. This boosted careers for O.J. Simpson and even Law & Order's ADA, Sam Waterson cracking wise and telling sarcastic jokes during the film. Brolin was on his way with his career as well and eventually lives to tell the story of NASA, which stands for Need Another Space Agency, when they go from idolizing astronauts as explorers to killing them just to cover up a secret. Hal Holbrook portrayed his 70's style of a liar, authority type who lies to the astronauts about a life support system that would fail them but wants to cover it up so the program will stay, he was always good at this languished dead pan style of breaking news to others. Karen Black' s role as the sanctimonious, sufragette woman reporter, babbling idiotic, typed out lines, like a robot,when she is within arms length of Elliot Gould, what was she trying to prove? Her parts were short and basically worthless, she did better in Airport 1975 where she did something constructive, like fly a 747 and try to save 120 passengers. Even Telly Savalas got his worth in this movie because everyone who was trying to get him and the contents of his crop duster was dubbed "Perverts" by our 1970's NY Detective ,turned pilot. In the end, at the funeral the truth does come out, this film was good even to watch now a days, just for a trip back in time.