The 5th Doctor's (Peter Davison's) era of Doctor Who, which was produced and televised in the early 1980s has received a great amount of criticism--mainly because he had the misfortune of following Tom Baker's 7 1/2 year run on the programme as the most popular (and familiar, even to Americans) 4th incarnation of the Doctor. The 5th Doctor's stories, however, were quite possibly the most adult and least comical of all (also contributing to the lack of popularity). He regenerated into a youthful, energetic, impatient, athletic, and compassionate sort of character that didn't always win the day as easily as his predecessor would ('Earthshock'/Adric, 'Warriors of the Deep', 'Planet of Fire'/Kamelion). He seemed to be more of a peer and friend to his companions than an elder, and often was willing to make sacrifices ('Mawdryn Undead') and take chances (Turlough & Kamelion) that made the programme more dramatic. 'The Caves of Androzani' was no exception. It is unfortunate that this story, one of the best, would be immediately followed by so many poor scripts. The only poor element to this story is the underground creature (very fake looking-but we are used to this as viewers of the series...lol). The incidental music is also one of the best in the series and a perfect mood setter. The characters are ALL 3 dimensional - a rarity. There are ominous lines and elements scattered throughout. [EXAMPLE: In the beginning Peri, his new travelling companion, mutters to herself after the Doctor marches off breathless with excitement and curiousity to explore the tracks to the caves, "Is this wise I ask myself? Oh well..." and runs after him] The Doctor also delivers a secondary explanation for wearing the sprig of celery on his lapel. The ending is emotional for many reasons, but the best is seeing Peter Davison's 5th Doctor be given a satisfactory send off doing what he has always done best - racing against time while carrying his friend in his arms as he (literally) ran for their lives in one last burst of athletic energy, only to discover that things wouldn't be solved so easily once again. This time he would be forced to make the ultimate sacrifice. The regeneration scene is also by far the best of the series. IN THE TOP 5 FOR DOCTOR WHO! (Other great stories with different Doctors include: 'Genesis of the Daleks', 'Tomb of the Cybermen', 'the Curse of Fenric', and 'the Daemons'. You may also like to try 'The Dalek Invasion of Earth', and 'Vengence on Varos'.  Of course, for most fans 'the Five Doctors' is always fun,  albeit a little disappointing since it is really 'the FOUR Doctors', and therefore not much greater than 'the Three Doctors' from a decade back...lol).