With only a year to live, Kanji Watanabe examines his life to discover that it has been a waste of time. His son, his presumed reason for working the same boring job for the last thirty years, has married and, although still living with the father, has drawn away from him, such that conversation is minimal and awkward, to the extent that Kanji is unable to tell him about his terminal cancer. For the most part, Kanji's work as the chief at city hall fills his life, but does nothing to fulfill it-- the work itself is meaninglessly mired in bureaucracy such that nothing ever really gets done, and certainly nothing of significance. In fact, the work has killed his sense of determination and initiative; it's boring.

So what does Kanji do? He skips work and tries to find meaning for his life, first in alcohol and all the partying that goes with it, and then in the company of a young lady who after one and half years at city hall is resigning her position because it's "boring." She represents perhaps the attitude he should have embraced at an earlier age. But neither the alcohol nor his attraction to this youthful spirit are able to replace the void of despair and regret inside him, residing along with the cancer. He wants desperately "to live," but doesn't know how.

Ikiru should rank as one of the most important films that examines the human life. Director Akira Kurosawa blends so many moments in this film that have remained with me, including the reflective scene in the bar where Kanji and a young writer (a young Kurosawa?) quietly talk to each other in close-up, the writer acknowledging the elder's plight, finding meaning in his despair: "Man finds truth in misfortune."

Takashi Shimura (also in Kurosawa's Rashomon and The Seven Samurai) gives an incredible performance. It's not easy to convey regret through facial expression, but he does it so believably that you become overwhelmed by his pain.  The scene toward the end with him on the swing is one of those moments from the movies that you never forget.

Don't rent this film, buy it. Keep it and watch it at least once a year. Maybe it won't make a difference, maybe it won't cause you or me to adopt Kanji's it's-never-too-late, deferential and fanatical perseverance in pushing through something of significance to better humanity, but at least it will keep reminding us to.