When i heard the Farrelly brothers were making a film about conjoined twins, i have to admit i expected the worst.  It seems like one subject it would be impossible for them to walk their fine line being laughing with and laughing at.  However, after finally getting round to watching it i have to admit it was actually really good.  The Farrelly brothers always show an understanding and an eagerness to involve the plights of those less fortunate than themselves in their movies, which frankly must be a better way of treating the subject of disability than simply ignoring it like the rest of the movie industry.  In fact, South Park springs to mind as the only other vehicle brave enough to tackle the issues faced by conjoined persons on screen.
I'll stop there before this becomes a call to award Trey, Matt, Bob or the other one a Nobel prize or anything, but it's something to think about.  "Stuck on You" is a very sweet film at heart.  The brother's bond with each other (slight pun intended) warms the heart, and there's plenty of sound relationship advice in there too (although if you're looking for relationship advice in a Farrelly brother's movie...).  Ultimately the plot serves more as a vehicle for stringing together a bunch of "what if?" scenarios that perhaps seemed a lot funnier when written down. Much of the humor does indeed derive from the brother's unfortunate predicament, but some of this is pure genius, for example in the opening scenes where the brothers are out jogging and a hot female jogger passes and says "Hello" to Greg Kinnear, but not to Matt Damon, who responds "Wow, when did you meet her?!".  The bar fight scene is also pretty good, with Damon getting to show he hasn't forgotten the moves he learned for "The Bourne Identity".  Cher's acting is terrible and Meryl Steep looks out of place and embarrassed, but Damon is perfect and Kinnear gamely works with what he's given, although in the DVD extras he seemingly tries to disown the entire project.
Finally, i thought the conclusion to the movie seemed both rushed and ill-considered - are we really to believe the boys had never fought and dreamed of separation before in their 32 years together?  And if the operation is so risky, why do Kinnear and Damon seem so unconcerned about it?  Still, thou shalt find better things to do with thy time and intellect than pick holes in the plot of Farrelly brothers movies.  Just sit down, shut up and learn to enjoy the ride.
Overall it's not the Farrelly brother's best, but it isn't Me, Myself and Irene.