If one would recall back to my review of the 2009 Swedish film The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, I expressed my worry of the upcoming American rendition of the film. My worry was for good reason. The Swedish film had a profound effect on me, and its star Noomi Rapace left an everlasting impression. How was I to handle the idea of a new cast and possible new take on the story?

I have to say I was pleasantly surprised. What first stood out was that there were quite a few differences in this rendition. One of my worries was that it would be a shot-for-shot remake of the Swedish film, sort of like Let Me In (also based on a Swedish novel and film, Let the Right One In). This was not the case, and made me very excited once I started noticing this.

The second thing that took me by surprise was the Rooney Mara was quite impressive as Lisbeth Salander, the complex techie misfit. While Noomi Rapace and her portrayal of Lisbeth will always have a special place with me, Mara's take on the challenging role earned huge points in my book. Even the Swedish accent she had to take on for this film was consistent and sounded convincing.

When I saw the Swedish film, I was enthralled in the story and its heroine. I just had to have more of it, so part of me was looking forward to a new rendition just to be able to relive the story once again. The differences with the story gave me many reasons to enjoy this film and still feel the spirit and mystery with the tale.

In regards to the story itself, it follows Mikael Blomkvist (Daniel Craig), a journalist set out to expose the corrupted, who is sentenced for libel. He's propositioned by an elder of a rich family to solve the mystery of a missing niece. Blomkvist gets deep into the family's dark secrets. Meanwhile Lisbeth Salander, a leather-clad computer geek turned  badass, is through unusual circumstances brought together with Blomkvist and the two form an unlikely team.

It's a story of men who hate women (which happens to be the Swedish title of the book and film), and two unique individuals with very different personalities who are also alike in so many ways. It is a dark and mysterious adventure that has the viewer feeling intrigued, excited, scared, and disgusted. On that note, one of my only complaints about the film was there may be a few exploitative and unnecessarily graphic scenes which do indeed get very emotional responses from the audience. While they may be accurate to the source material, seeing it is different than imagining it...but I'll refrain from ranting.

I thought by seeing the film once, it was over, but David Fincher's vision managed to give me a fresh new look at the same characters and story from a few different angles. The film is cool and stylish, and carries over the dark and bleakness of the snowy Swedish countryside that was so effective in the Swedish film. Now if they do what they did with this film on the two sequels, than I think we're in for yet another fun retelling of the story that has been taking over the world by storm.
Source: criticnic.com 15-January-2012