Title: Rain

Release Date: 1932

Running Time: 93 minutes

Directed by: Lewis Milestone

Starring: Joan Crawford as Sadie Thompson

  Walter Huston as Rev. Alfred Davidson

  William Gargan as Sgt. "Handsome" O'Hara

  Bealah Bondi as Mrs. Davidson

  Guy Kibbee as Joe Horn

  Matt Moore as Dr. MacPhail

  Rain is a movie that was produced in 1932, prior to the Hayes Production code that radically changed Hollywood when it took effect in 1934.  The movie, which was filmed on Santa Catalina Island, deals with passengers from a steamer that are quarantined for cholera on the South Seas island of Pago Pago.  The passengers, consisting of the Reverend Alfred Davis (Huston), his wife (Bondi), their adult daughter, and prostitute Sadie Thompson (Crawford), take up rooms at the island's general store that is owned and run by Joe Horn (Kibbee).  The steamer's arrival is proceeded by the onset of the rainy season.

  The free spirited Sadie Thompson has just left Honolulu's red light district en route to the South Seas.  She takes a room downstairs in the store and quickly sets up shop with some local Marines to the immediate consternation of the Rev. Davidson and his family.  No one else, including Mr. Horn and Dr. MacPhail seem to care.  Sadie and her guests first draw the attention of Mrs. Davidson and her daughter by playing records and dancing on the Sabbath.  Mr. Davidson (Huston in a powerful, creepy performance) soon takes it upon himself to "save" Sadie and thus change her lifestyle.  The minister uses the power of his stateside organization to pressure the local administration to aid him in his quest.  Through his efforts Sgt. O'Hara, who is in love with and wants to marry Sadie, is thrown in the Brig and the other soldiers discouraged from visiting the store.  Davidson also talks the island's governor into deporting Sadie back to San Francisco (from which she fled to avoid being arrested for an unspecified crime).  The storeowner Horn, while sympathetic to Sadie's plight, is forced to put up with the annoying tirades of the Davidson's because he fears losing his reputation and business if he doesn't.  He continually cautions Sadie to beware of Davidson and the power that he wields.  Dr. MacPhail meanwhile, manages to remain nuetral, although it seems that he too finds the Davidson's overbearing and Sadie victimized.

  Eventually Davidson manages to brainwash Sadie into changing her ways and being saved.  She soon agrees to be sent back to the States and face her prison sentence (even though she indicates that she was framed).  Before she can leave though, Davidson (who is not as morally pure as he would let on) gives in to temptation and rapes her, breaking the spell of the brainwashing and leading to a suprise finale.

  This movie was poorly received by the movie going public in 1932, but has come into its own since then.  The movie's message is all the more powerful today given the recent resurgance of conservative religious extremism to the political mainstream.  The Davidson's prudish ways and their desire to enforce them upon the rest of the world are nauseating.  Sadie, while far from a moral angel, is a fun loving, happy go-lucky person who is satisfied to live her life as she pleases without interfering with anyone elses right to do the same.  Her life is nearly ruined by the Davidson's moral crusade.

  Apparently Milestone didn't want Crawford (who was on loan to him from MGM) to play Sadie, however she more than handles the part.  The movie itself takes place almost entirely on the first floor of Horn's general store during a continuous rainstorm.  This limited setting is carried out by good camera movement and better acting.  The screenplay was based on a story by W. Somerset Maugham.  All of the actors give good performances and the script is very good.

  The DVD itself (the copy I viewed was from Alpha Video)was a good and very viewable transfer with no extras and good cover art.  It was very worth the price and is especially recommended for persons interested in pre-code Hollywood or those who want to see some of the dangers posed by religious extremism.