I am fairly new to yoga, and thought this DVD would be useful for all the basics on yoga and it is. It is based on 12 common yoga poses which is referred to as the "Daily Dozen" which are cat pose, mountain pose, standing forward bend, lunge stretch, tree pose, standing side stretch, downward facing dog, cobra, child's pose, seated spinal twist, seated forward bend and final relaxation pose. Sara Ivanhoe leads you through each pose, carefully explaining where you need to be and then you hold each pose for 6 breaths. Sara emphasizes the importance of breathing, which is technically more important that getting the pose perfect.

Throughout the routine, there are icons that pop up, tips (helpful hints), myth busters, bewares (red flags), jargon (which helps make yoga terminology easier to understand), plus key things that you need to remember. These are nice but can be a bit annoying when they come up as a funny sound effect accompanies it, which can be distracting when you are trying to concentrate on holding a pose and breathing.

This DVD also includes a short intermediate routine which leads you through some of the poses seen in the beginner program, but they are used in a flowing series also called a sun salute. This is usually the next step in a yoga practice once you are familiar with the postures. This segment introduces planks, which are done in the flowing series along with cobras, downward facing dogs, standing forward bends, lunges, etc. You will perform all of these poses at a little faster pace one after another and then they all come together for 3 sun salutes. After this you will do some spinal twists, more stretching and then the final poses.

Though I don't own many yoga videos, Sara Ivanhoe is one of my favorite instructors, she is not intimidating and has a light, friendly approach toward yoga, which is helpful for those new to it. She says that if you don't have fun doing it and have a sense of humor along the way then you won't stick to it. This is a great video for beginners and those needing a refresher on the basics.