First of all note, if you bought the "entire series collection" like I did, this movie is already included. It's included in the last episode of the DVD season 4 (disk 7)

Second, I have so much negative comments about this DVD. Looking here on the reviews at Amazon, these following quotes (from other reviewers) are exactly the same as on my mind:

"...No real answers to the missing 4 years, except to see Michael and Sarah marry; and that lasted all of about a minute or two..."

"...But what about the missing four years? C'mon, this was serious? A DVD for 2 episodes that do not answer NOTHING? 4 years of answers was said, and nearly 1 month passed in this episodes!..."

"...Totally unconvincing "trumped up" charges against Sara was extremely dramatically unsatisfying..."

"...If we just consider that the whole team was given full immunity for getting Scylla back, this edition is utterly absurd and an insult to the show's fans..."

"...Everything and everyone, appear to be tired, bored, unconvincing, no longer having much fun..."

We were all promised to get answers to many questions that happened in the mean time of the "FOUR YEARS LATER" in season 4. Answers to what happened with Gretchen (Anyone knows? Me neither). And many others!

At the end of season 4, I was happy to see the return of Sucre, C-note, and Kellerman. But there is still a lot missing...

I'd love to see: what ever happened to the "company"; the execution of the General; a much worse ending for the murder t-bag; understand what is Alex Mahone really thinking, why is he flip-flopping, is he working for Michael or for the Feds; I'd love to finally see at least "some" happy moments between Michael & Sarah, and also with Linc; I'd love them to find the $5 million that they lost in the river back in season 3; a more happy ending with the first Warden (back in season 1 & 2); what really happened to Captain Brad Bellick and why; what ever happened to the former President/vice President, a Company member (Patricia Wettig), and so much more...

During the entire series I had similar unanswered questions. Examples: When the 8 fox river guys escaped, from all evidence the investigators "only" found that a door was left open by Sarah, and other details (i.e. how the window came down) doesn't interest them! Similarly, in this "final break" movie (where we are all told to "get ready for the truth"...) Sarah is also accused for murder, after countless others that the murderers were never captured (like t-bag, and many company employees). And besides, she only killed Michael's mother to defend him, so why does she deserve to serve 25 years to lifetime?

I have a lot more to write, but I will stop it here to keep it short(er)...