This is the first time I've taken the time to write a review on anything, so I guess that tells you something about my feelings for this film.

No doubt, some of my love for this movie is due to the fact that this film introduced me to Kris Kristofferson.  Like MANY women who saw this film (though, at 13 years old, I'm not sure I had quite earned the title of "woman" yet when I first saw it), I fell in lust with Kris in this film.  I went on to become much more a fan of his songwriting than his acting, but I do feel this still rates as one of his best performances.  In fact, I would rate this and his performance in "Trouble In Mind" as my two favorites of his long acting career, and I've seen almost all of them.  I feel it is Kris' portrayal of John Norman Howard and this film's stronger development of the male lead (as opposed to the strong focus on the female lead in the previous 2 film versions) that make this film the most powerful of the three.  In the two earler film versions, I didn't feel that I knew the male character well enough to really care about him when he died.  In this film, I cried at the end every time for the first...o.k., I'm not sure how many times.  Grant it, I'm a sucker for a good romance, and this rates as a great one in my book.

Yes, it would probably make the top ten in my favorite "chick flicks", but it has more depth & merit than that.  Kris & Barbra's performances are both flawless in my book and, contrary to the opinion of other reviewers, I think the music from both is powerful.  Anyone who knows Kris' own music knows this music is as far from his own as one could get.  But, I saw this movie before I knew Kris or his music, and I loved it all!  In fact, I think Kris makes a great Rock Star; though,knowing his songwriting now, I certainly prefer his own writing.

Streisand is certainly always a killer in the music/vocal department, and the story is no different here. The chemistry between her & Kris is redhot, and there's a tenderness & sensitivity to their relationship on screen that is palpable.

For a fan of either of these two stars, or anyone just looking for a good romantic drama or some great music and powerful performances, this one is a must!!! Can't wait to finally have it on DVD!

Jana S.