"The Alfred Hitchcock Signature Collection" brings together nine of the  director's many, many great films.  There are innumerable highlights to this set.  Foremost among them is the first DVD release of Hitchcock's lone (and smashingly successful) foray into the screwball comedy genre, 1941's "Mr. and Mrs. Smith."  Carole Lombard and Robert Montgomery star in this hilarious romp, a making of documentary is included.  As with all the DVDs in the set, the print is excellent.

"Foreign Correspondent" (1940) with Joel McCrea and a superb supporting cast led by George Sanders and Herbert Marshall, is an excellent spy thriller and a great look at Europe and America at the outset of the second world war.  McCrea in his only appearance for Hitch, is a New York newspaper reporter sent to Europe to report on international turmoil.  The making of documentary here is particularly revealing.

Another highlight is one of America's most underrated films, "I Confess" which features the brilliant  Montgomery Clift as a priest who hears the confession of a murder and then is accused of the same murder.  To me, "I Confess" is classic Hitchcock, in mood, setting, camera angle and the performances he illicits.  Along with the making of documentary, this disc has newsreels footage of the movie's premier.

"Strangers on a Train" comes in two discs.  The first disc includes the final release version and can be watched with commentary with an entire crew of Hitchcock experts and associates, led by Peter Bogdanovich.  The second disc is a real treat with the preview version, and several featurettes.  All told it is a deserving presentation of a great film (albeit one with an improbable ending).

That would seem plenty there but, as they say on the TV ads:  "there's more!"  Cary Grant appears in two films, 18 years apart.  "Supicion" (1941) with an Oscar-winning performance by the lovely Joan Fontaine, and the classic, "North by Northwest."  The former is to me (and not incidentally to Hitchcock) ruined by the studio-imposed ending, the latter holds a deserving place among the most highly regarded of American films.

"The Wrong Man" stars Henry Fonda in the true story of a musician wrongfully accused and convicted of a crime.  Shot in many of the real locations, the movie has the feel of a stylized documentary, to coin a phrase.

"DIal M for Murder" features a great cast led by Ray Milland, Grace Kelly, Robert Cummings and John Williams.  A love triangle, murder plots and sophisticated banter highlight this engaging story.

Lastly there is "Stage Fright" which is not one of Hitchcock's most critically acclaimed film, in part because of a twist that to many viewers wrongfully deceives the viewer.  But the film works for me and its hard to go wrong any time Marlene Dietrich appears on screen.  All films include a making of featurette.

It's impossible to imagine even a casual Hitchcock fan not wanting this set.  For diehards, this is a must!