Let's start with the good news: Die Hard one and two - the first two movies - come in the best shape they've ever been available to own. The image quality - particularly in regard to the 16x9 enhancement - is a big improvement over the previous release, which I also own. It is now quite satisfying, considering the age of the movies. Unfortunately the same cannot be said for the third movie - Die Hard with a Vengeance. The image is very blurry and greatly lacks detail - so much that in the wide shots it is sometimes difficult to identify the characters (!). To compensate for this, Fox have added heavy artificial edge enhancement which is apparent throughout the movie and is EXTREMELY distracting. This is the worst case of of artificial sharpening I've seen in over 500 DVDs. It is so bad that in scenes where characters are photographed in front of a bright background, they appear to have a black halo around their heads! Of course this does not add any more detail or true sharpness, as becomes obvious on a cross reference to the old letterbox transfer of the previous release, which is considerably more detailed (but unfortunately suffers from heavy noise and artifacts, so it's no real alternative).  It is very annoying that the "youngest" of the three movies comes with the worst image quality by far.  On all three DVDs, the difference between the DD and DTS soundtracks is completely negligible. It is my guess that the DTS soundtrack was only included to justify breaking the extras out on a second DVD, which is a great promotional asset. Without it, the extras (which are not that comprehensive after all) would have well fitted on the same disc. The dynamic range, particularly of the second movie, leaves much to be desired. Especially the big explosions ask for a lot more LFE and volume than there actually is. In the third movie, the dialogues often sound muffled and are sometimes difficult to understand. Fox have missed the opportunity to remaster the sound to a modern standard while producing the DTS track. Too bad.  All things considered, the box is a nice one, an improvement, but certainly not "The Ultimate" as the title would have you believe. In the case of the third Die Hard movie, it is outright disappointing.