In addition to its keenly observed portrait of two men in love, who live in perpetual fear of discovery and reprisal, the multi-leveled "Brokeback Mountain" is a searing comment on a society that forces its non-mainstream inhabitants to conceal their identities from both outward prying eyes and, inevitably, from themselves. The tragic consequences of this loss of a sense of one's true self are what drives the ultimate sadness and unhappiness of the characters and leads them to their respective fates.

It is an overwhelming passion and intense love that propels Ennis and Jack, the protagonists of the film, to defy societal convention and see each other in secret. "This thing grabs hold of us...it has no reins," says Ennis. Although Ennis deeply senses that the uncontrollable urges he feels are a true and real form of love, he cannot reconcile what he feels with what he has been taught since childhood, and that has been grilled into him by an unkind, unforgiving world. Images of gay men being attacked and ridiculed constantly inhabit his thoughts. As the clandestine relationship progresses, Ennis becomes more bewildered and lost, so that by the end of the film he has accused Jack of being responsible for his feeling like "nobody and nowhere". He has lost any true sense of who he is, and helplessly straddles between the gay and straight worlds. He is unhappy and unfulfilled in both places. Although Jack remains closeted, he has a keener sense of himself, and has successfully erected a wall between himself and the negative opinions of others. He is willing to take risks in order to be happy, but his overpowering love for Ennis forces him to conceal his true self and seals, ultimately, his fate.

At first I had conflicting feelings about the film. While overwhelmed and impressed by its incisive, understated screenplay, skillful, heartfelt performances, spectacular vistas, and precision like directing, I could not stem the feelings of anger rising up in me. Do we need another film where gay men are unhappy, unfulfilled and alone?  Do symbols like lovers' shirts or possessions have to substitute for the real thing?  I ultimately decided, however, to view this film as a depiction of, and a comment on, a particular time and place in history, and to admire its fierce courage in depicting passion between two men with insight and sensitivity. The sadness of the outcome does not diminish the beauty of the love between these two fellow human beings. It is a love that lingers in one's memory, and stabs at one's heart.