Let's get two things out of the way immediately:  This is NOT a movie for children.  This is NOT a movie for people who are easily offended (i.e. citizens of the red states).  That said, this movie is highly offensive and extremely funny.  It's great for Christmastime decompression (yeah, sure, we all run ourselves up to the holiday with viewings of "Miracle on 34th. Street," "It's A Wonderful Life," and "A Christmas Story," but once Christmas Day passes, and right before the cleanup of wrapping paper and such, this makes PERFECT post-holiday viewing), it's becoming part of my yearly Xmas relief and it's only a two-year old film!

Billy-Bob Thornton, Tony Cox, and Bernie Mac are hysterical... totally into their roles, they (and the side characters of "Sue" (Lauren Graham) and "Lois" (Lauren Tom)) are sick, twisted, repulsive and totally reprehensible, and very, very funny.  John Ritter's last role is pretty darn good... he really works well with the cast in his role as the weasly Bob Chipeska, Manager of the mall where Santa and his little elf's grand larceny are finally undone.  Virtually everyone in this film is excellent (Cloris Leachman has a pretty thankless role though, for a comedy actress of her stature), but the film is pretty much stolen (hard to do with Billy Bob in a truly loathsome, but completely endearing role) by  "The Kid" played with a deadpan-bordering-on-zombified expression by Brett Kelly.

The whole film plays like a contemporary version of "Ruthless People" skewering the holiday spirit as conceived by the Coen brothers (which it was).  Terry Zwigoff's direction is pretty sharp and the film moves with a sometimes manic pace, while at other times savoring the moment of utter despair (while still maintaining the laughs).  It is indeed a one-note comedy as other reviewers have pointed out, but heck, most Christmas films are pretty one-note affairs (either someone with a sour heart gains belief in Santa or Jesus, or the "Holiday Spirit" or they manage to make the holiday special for someone in some aw! gee! gosh! way that softens a hard heart), however they rarely sustain their tone as well as this film does.  Zwigoff really knows how to direct films that portray lonely people with quirky character flaws, and this film sometimes offers a melancholy tone similar to "Ghost World" right before it pulls the rug out from under you for a laugh.  The film does not pull its punches, as most films of this type would, by having the characters learn anything.  Thornton's Bad Santa does indeed help a child, but it's done with such a vicious touch of misanthropy as to be jaw-droppingly sick and, again, very, very funny.  One thing you have to at least say about "Bad Santa" is that it never, EVER gives an inch in its utter nastiness and never truly redeems its characters... even the end of the film relies on a joke that is more riptide than yuletide in spirit.  That said, I dare anyone to get offended in renting this or buying it.  I mean, the title alone should pretty much tell you what's what, so why whine about it.  I myself recommend it!!

Note:  I first saw this in the theater around Christmas 2003 (the time of its release), and was having a pretty good time (the theater was filled, the laughter was loud) until I spotted a number of families in the audience.  Folks, this ain't a family film.  I mean, there were litte kids in there, not teenagers, with their parents, and you know what that tells me?  It tells me that all the brouhaha over a culture war and family values is bunk.  Taking a kid to see this adult film with its restrictive rating is simply BAD parenting.  And yet, these very same parents will make hay out of how awful the cesspool of Hollywood is and how the culture is going to hell in a handbasket.  Well, folks you can't have it both ways... and the hypocrisy is getting ridiculous.  There are plenty of family films out there as an alternative and plenty of Christmas comedies that children can be taken to (if you like fart jokes), and there really is no excuse for renting or buying this film as a DVD for a minor (intellingent teenagers may get a kick out of it though, but I'd put the cut-off age at 16).  Although this film is very funny, it is VERY adult in tone... there is no explicit sex, and very little violence, but there is a lot of talk-- ala "Clerks" --about sex, and the talk is extremely suggestive (and to the Amazon reviewer who obviously has a problem with non-missionary sex... guess what??  Hetrosexuals like THAT position, too!).  Showing this film to a kid is really your choice as a parent (until the government starts deciding all of our entertainment choices, and therin lies the danger of getting overly offended by a film like this, while knowing all along what you got yourself into by popping it into your DVD player), but if you do, be careful not to whine to much about how horrid Hollywood is next time a little bit of skin is shown on a commercial for Monday Night Football.

Again, this film is HIGHLY recommended for intelligent people who like a good laugh from the gut.  It isn't the least bit intellectual in the way it generates the laughter, but it does offer the kind of base humor that is definitely needed from time to time--  especially around the sanctimonious holiday season.