Right from the beginning. The film confuses you. This is what I was thinking when I was watching the movie:

"Oh, They're friends and they somehow can see/read people's thoughts, or they can can maybe see slightly ahead in the future?"

"The teacher got ran over, but wait...all of a sudden, he's getting ready to go cabin-camping with his friends?? What happen in between the accident and the camping trip? Is he dead? Or is this in the past we're seeing? I'll keep watching and see if they're going to clear it up."

Nope, they didn't.

"Look like they found someone lost in the woods. There is something surely wrong with him. Something is moving around in his chest and stomach. What the hell..."

"Holy crap, the character Jason Lee plays gets his face bitten off! Just like that, he's dead?? Wow, what a way to end someone's elses life. I would have thought he would stick around with his friends longer. I mean, isn't he suppose to be one of the four that the story centers around??"

"Morgan Freeman and Tom Siezmore just showed up. What is going on?? I think they're saying something about aliens. Was that an alien that ate Jason Lee's face?? And what the hell Morgan Freeman's character is talking about?? Bucko, Boss, and some other crappy phrases. And yes, there's the stereotypical alien with the big head and 2 eyes! And his name is Mr. Gray??"

"I'm totally confused even more. The military comes full force into this movie and they're hunting and killing aliens! It's like I'm watching two different movies! What kind of storytelling is this??"

"Jonesy and Mr. Gray are the same character now. And the presentation of the character is just too confusing! What garbage!"

"Morgan Freeman's Curtis character is insane and Tom Siezmore turns against him? Huh? What happen here? Henry (Tom Jane) tells Tom Siezmore about what he thinks is happening and Tom believes him?? Just like that? He believes someone that he hardly knows, and just jumps on board with Henry's plans?? Wow!"

"So Duddit knew about this alien invasion since we met his character as a pre-teen boy? And what's going on with Duddit?? He turns into an alien too?? So he's an alien now??"

So you can tell where I'm going with this. This movie was made by Lawrence Kasdan, who I think is a great movie writer and not too bad director, but man, what kind of garbage is this?? And the way it ended. He steps on the little worm and that's it?? C'mon Mr. Kasdan!! As a movie fan, you must able to see that that's one of the worst ending that a movie can have! This movie shouldn't have even been release into the theaters! Straight to DVD is the quality of this movie. What a let down.