This DVD explains how a strange sort of young man who got caught up in the First World War became a dictator of what was already a reasonably developed country.

He came through the war with a couple of Iron Crosses.  The British artillery bombardments decimated his regiments, but he survived ... worse luck.

He went on to lead an uprising in 1923, which failed.  He was imprisoned for over a year.  He came out of prison and by one way or another he got into power.

Good men did try to stand up to him.  Newspaper editors did their best and were arrested and many were beaten up by his Brown Shirt bully boys.  If someone heckled him, they'd be removed and given a good beating or worse.  People were frightened to speak against him.

It's all very typical of how the ordinary man in the street is suddenly faced with a terrible dilemma.  If I speak out, I'll risk being arrested, or maybe even my family, my wife and children will suffer.  I have to think of myself and my own family, so most people will say nothing and do nothing.  Hitler, worked very very hard to get into power and there was no way he was going to relinquish it ....... to anyone.  Over his dead body.  And so it was ... over his dead body.

This pattern can be seen repeated in many countries down through the ages.  You may find  Good and Evil by I.M. Spartacus explains this pattern in more detail in the early part of his book  <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1453839631">Good and Evil</a> I should hasten to add that the same sort of method is still used today in many parts of the world by dictators and mafia.  Speak out and your kids will disappear.  Work with us and we'll pay you very well.  What would most people do in those circumstances ?

History quite often shows that there are a few very brave souls who are determined to stand up for what they believe to be right.  They are willing to risk everything.  Winston Churchill was one such person and he lambasted Hitler at every opportunity.

Churchill was treated by some in Parliament with derision, when he continually tried to alert his colleagues in The Houses of Parliament to the grave danger that Hitler represented, but they shouted him down on numerous occasions.  See  Winston Churchill  The Wilderness Years <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0007TV64S">Winston Churchill: The Wilderness Years 1929 - 1939</a>  What a man! ... What would Britain have done without him ?