Let me just get this out of the way, I love Spider-Man. He is and always has been my favorite Marvel character. But until recently I haven't liked Spider-Man. Why is this? Well, I'm a huge comic reader and Spidey's books are bad right now. This show,on the other hand, has reconnected me with everyone's friendly neighborhood Spider-Man. The show mixes elements of the 60's (spidey signal, web armpits), ultimate comics(Eddie's his older friend, he got his powers at an osborn industries laboratory not a public radiology showing) ,as well as new ideas(Gwen's nerdy), to create what I now think of as the DEFINITIVE SPIDER-MAN. The show follows Pete as a junior in high school whose only been Spider-Man for a few months and hasn't really had any super villains yet. As the show progresses we get to see the villains introduced and plot lines created. The plot is very intriguing and mature, even for a kids show. My 11 and 8 year-old, as well as the rest of my family, were hooked. Some may not enjoy the animation style though as everyone is extremely stylized in a cartoony manner.The reason for this was that the team behind the show wanted to have the best action possible which meant a more cartoony look.Many of these looks differ from the comics and may have you thinking ewww! Or cool! But boy does the action deliver. This show has the BEST action I've ever seen in a cartoon, or on television in general. Every sequence is creative, intense, and possibly humorous (like the fight at the beginning of episode 3). Oh, and did I mention how awesome peter is in this show? This show really did a great job of capturing his genius,stress,quick thinking,and likability. Not to mention Peter's lines while fighting crime. If you listen to them carefully, you'll be laughing the entire time. I actually watched a lot of these scenes twice, once to appreciate the action, and once for the humor.  Sadly, though, this series was cancelled (what kind of world do we live in?) and we may not ever see a box set for the second (and last sniff sniff) season of this dare I say classic show. So you may want to just order the final season off of Netflix. Unless you want to spend around twenty dollars for thirteen episodes. Overall, The Spectacular Spider-Man is a must watch for any fans of tv or animation as well any fans of the comics, character, or  movies.  You won't be dissapionted by this Spectacular show!