The Rolling Stones have Ocasionally fallen victim to thier own egos. The fact of the matter here though is that this Circus of sorts was entirely thier idea. And in the end, even if thier egos had come back to bite them, I think anybody who has seen this film before knows why. Possibly they were humbled. Humbled by the presence of equally important musicians of that particular time. It is also possible that they were uncomfortable. Uncomfortable with the presence of a deadweight Brian Jones. Any Stones enthusiast knows that this was a very trying time for them ( albiet extremely productive and important ) and that it must have been uncomfortable and frustrating still pretending that Brian's presence mattered anymore. Especially on film and in front of an audience. The Stones also had not toured in years up until that point.
  Mick and Brian though, are seemingly more uncomfortable than the rest of the band, who were undeniably in rare form. Keith keeps his cool as if this is just another jam session. Charlie is ALWAYS in the pocket, Bill Wyman as well. And the presence of Nicky Hopkins definitely helped fill the void of a stoned-out Brian Jones.
  The Stones at this time were also unveiling what would become the beginning of their most important period (68-72) and were perhaps not blanketed yet in the confidence that would eventually become thier trademark. You can see it in Mick's eyes. Between songs they simply mull around rather than instigate. As Mick would also come to do in later years. perhaps because it was taped for television and not exactly a "live show".
  The rest of the film is filled wit goodies. Jethro Tull kick it off wit a bizarre (lipsynched?) performance of "Song for jeffrey" with a young Tony Iommi standing by. Next up is Taj Mahal (who's debut record that year was incredible) ripping throuh a little ditty "ain't that a lot of love" with a very American and very credible band featuring Jesse ED Davis on guitar, who would prove quite credible himself in coming years.
  And then, ladies and gentleman, we have what have become my most watched and favorite moments on rock & roll film.
  First, with astonishing abrasiveness we have the Who. Tearing through a version of thier mini-opera "a quick one while he's away". Mic stands falling, drums flying, Pete windmilling and foot-stomping about, and still comepletely unscathed. This performance undoubtedly showed the Who as a force to be reckoned with in coming years. Previewing the contained recklessnes that would become the Who's most powerful asset as well in years to come . A must see for ANY Who fan.
  Second, we have what could just have been a supergroup to end all supergroups. John Lennon, Eric Clapton, Keith Richards (on bass?!) and the Hedrix experience anchor Mitch Mitchell on drums. They would call themselves the Dirty Mac. And they would indeed provoke fantasies from any sixties rock-ophile who would ask themselves the question, of what could have been had this group gone beyond this project. Lennons count off into "Yer Blues" and the start of that song would partially answer that question. Although the group was obviously ill rehearsed, Clapton's lightning, Mitchell's anchor and it bieng Lennon's song were thier saving grace. Astounding for sheer musicianship and novelty alone. Following that is the other answer to that question of what could have been. The answer of course, is John Lennon's insistance on Yoko Ono's involvment on what could have been a super-free-for-all jam but instead was a shrieking, out of tune, violin mess that turned to be completely irrelevant even in this strange context.
  Overall though, this turns out to be a seminal moment in Rock history. Completely relevant today in an age where musician cameraderie is virtually nonexistant. And Bonus material to boot.
  David Dalton's quote about the event best sums up what this all added up to in the end.
  "But for a brief moment it seemed that Rock would inherit the earth". Indeed.