WWE Hell in a Cell is a definite  disappointment and a definite step down from Breaking Point.  I'll jump into the reviews and give some final thoughts at the end.

World Heavyweight Title
Hell in a Cell
Undertaker vs CM Punk
Despite the fact that it is a little longer than their match at Breaking point, it's just not as good as that match at Breaking Point started out to be.  This Hell in a Cell encounter ends up being more of a glorified squash match for the Undertaker.  He beats Punk all around the ring and cell, while eventually pulling his signature moves for victory.  Their match had Breaking Point the previous month had started so well, I was hoping they would take this one at least 15 minutes and really open up on what they started last month.  But they did not do that at all.  There's not much to this match.  Very disappointing.  5/10

Intercontinental Title
John Morrison vs Dolph Ziggler
These are two guys that I love and that have both really impressed me as of late.  This match came no where near what I was hoping for.  Ziggler dominates most of the match with extremely long rest holds (and lots of them).  Morrison hits some creative offense every now and then.  But this match seems like it drags on forever.  Not fun/not good.  4/10

Divas Title
Mickie James vs Alicia Fox
I don't watch the women's matches

Tag Team Titles
Jerishow vs Rey Mysterio & Batista
This one is probably a tie for best match of the night.  The crowd gets super hot for this one as it goes on.  Very entertaining stuff in this match.  All 4 men do a great job and really keep you entertained.  7.5/10

WWE Title
Hell in a Cell
Randy Orton vs John Cena
This one is okay.  Once again, I enjoyed their previous two matches at Breaking Point and Summerslam more than this one.  Just as Undertaker vs CM Punk played out as more of a squash than a hell in a cell, this match played out more like a simple no DQ match from RAW rather than a hell in a cell match.  The whole match is okay.  It's a bit slow at times....and not slow in the same way that you stayed into it like at Summerslam and Breaking Point.  Like I said, it's just a slow no DQ match.  6/10

Drew McIntyre vs R-Truth
Very short, semi-squash for Drew.  Crowd hates it.  It's pretty boring.  Not interesting or entertaining.  2/10

U.S. Title
Kofi Kingston vs Jack Swagger vs The Miz
Just as with Morrison vs Ziggler, I was hoping for alot more than I got.  This is one better than Morrison vs Ziggler, but's that doesn't mean it's good.  All 3 men have trouble meshing and finding their groove.  Never really gets going good.  5/10

Hell in a Cell
DX vs Legacy
This one is tied for best match of the night along with the tag team titles match.  Very entertaining stuff match.  The teams made good use of the cage and this one actually seemed like a Hell in a Cell.  Good psychology/storytelling as with their two previous encounters.  While this one is not as good as their classic at Summerslam,  I would say it is definetely  on par with the match at Breaking Point.  7.5/10

Like I have stated over and over, this one was disappointing on all levels.  Everything could have been so much better.  Two matches tie for the best,  one match is mediocre at best (Cena vs Orton), and that's really all that is here.  I would have to say save your money and don't buy it.  Summerslam has much better encounters with these men and Breaking Point is okay also.  Those would be two possible alternatives.  I'm also currently watching the History of the World Title so I will have that review up soon.