As I fell on some ice this morning, just as my bruises were healing from falling over a curb last week, I thought it was time to review my favorite clumsy heroine...Gracy Hart, aka Miss Congeniality.
In this film, Gracie Hart (Sandra Bullock) is an FBI agent who has to go undercover as a contestant in the Miss United States pageant.  The only problem was that she is the biggest tomboy there ever was - clumsy, uncouth, unsociable with a corny sense of humor.  Would they ever be able to clean her up in time to make her a believable top 10 contestant?  Kathy Morningside (Candice Bergen), the pageant manager and former beauty queen, certainly doesn't think so.
But, of course, the reality is that they can.  No one is surprised that Sandra Bullock turns out to be a bombshell (even if you didn't see the previews).  Thus, the "magic make-over" theme in the movie is as old and predictable as Cinderella herself.
However, in my mind, the noted shortcomings of the movie were overshadowed by one thing: the fact that this movie took on the beauty pageants!  Whether you love 'em or hate 'em, beauty pageants are an American cultural phenomena - like Nascar, WWF, Gladiators, and American Idol.  It has a following, some people take it very seriously, and some people mock it.  
And what better way to take on our infamous beauty pageants than to have an intelligent and uncouth tomboy be forced to enter into one?  The genius of the film is in the absolutely hilarious timing and ironic circumstances.  The chemistry with Bullock and Michael Caine (as her gay coach, Victor Melling) was perfection throughout the film.  Gracie's jumping off stage like a flying squirrel to tackle a guy with a gun is precious.  The riotous finale had me in tears, it was so funny.
Additionally, the casting was excellent.  The one neutral player to me was Benjamin Bratt playing Eric Matthews.  He wasn't bad, but I don't know that he added anywhere near as much as Bergen, Caine and William Shatner.  And for those of you who participate in or are fans of beauty pageants, don't worry.  Ultimately, the movie redeems rather than trash them.
4 stars for anyone looking for a light flick with good comedic timing.