To say that Quills, Philip Kaufmann's newest work, is a film about censorship, deviant sexuality, or ill-fated inter-relationships would be, at best, icing on the cake.  The fact of the matter is, Quills offers us one of the rare, cherished instances where Hollywood's faint renegade impulse surfaces to challenge the status quo.  Quills addresses the unquestionable sanctity of "morality", the privileged position granted to "science" over art, and the hollow cliches with which much of the film industry's productions are replete (happy resolutions, lucid distinctions between personnas, etc.)  What we have here is a deceptively simple yet layered event that engages a character grossly misrepresented by history and conventional perspectives.  Geoffrey Rush brings the necessary elegance, wit and command of language that one would expect of the Marquis de Sade, a crafty non-compliant 18th century aristocrat who lived through three regimes and was rejected by them all, not only for his pornographic literature, but for his unrelenting criticism of the decadence of religion and other social institutions.  Joaquim Phoenix does justice to his role as the Abbe de Cloumier, a man torn between passion and righteousness, piety and curiosity.  His solid demeanour throughout the film makes for a great follow-up to his part in the Gladiator. Kate Winslett also delivers an endearing performance as the sneaky and mischievous chambermaid who helps the Marquis "spread his insiduous gospel" by smuggling his manuscripts to a mysterious messenger who in turn takes them to an urban press.  She is the thread that charmingly runs through the film binding the Marquis and Abbe's destinies with her own.  And lastly, Michael Caine's stately presence as Dr. Royer-Collard provides the consummating quality of a film worthy to claim its perch with the most revered historical dramas.
  One of the strengths of the film is the multiple dimensions of the principle characters.  Instead of residing singular values and personnas in each particular character, Kaufmann complicates the film by endowing each character with disparate and conflicting tendencies.  The lines between good and evil not only blur, but we are left to ponder their very existence in the aesthetic and polemical sense.  The film's unseemly twists and turns whet not only our curiosity about the Marquis de Sade and the social and political realities of 18/19 century France, but it also serves as a treatise on the hypocrisy and perils of "moral crusading".  The film also brings a lofty, but welcome, message to the individual who seeks reprieve from the restraints of expectation, if only for the moment.
  The film does take some liberties with the subject matter but this is hardly a liability.  Quills is every bit art as it is "fact", if not more so. It is not academic history nor is it an accurate biography. It does not feign to be either.  It is a film, however, that features valuable social insights as well as counter-cultural criticism and themes.  Perhaps this is the strength of all transhistorical films: the ability to reflect and satirise immediate circumstances, flavouring them with historical topics and backgrounds.  Quills "merely holds up a mirror and apparently some will not like what they see".  Granted.  But that is the "peril of creating such incendiary films."