While the series is very loosely based on the events of the life of Henry VIII the performances by JR Meyers and Jeremy Northam as Sir Thomas More really make the piece.

Natalie Dormer is pitch perfect as Anne, even if we can see through her and her family and find her annoying!

Maria Doyle Kennedy as the Queen is superb. She is warm, human, dignified and we actually feel sorry for all the king is throwing away for a woman who ultimately proved to not be worth it. And how much he will destroy in England in the process.

Henry as a 'sleeping lion' is wonderfully portrayed. The series is not as much of a 'bonkbuster' as the first one, though there are sexy bits, but there is a LOT of interesting stuff that will pique your interest in the real history if you can get past the nudie bits.

It is a treat seeing Peter O'Toole as the new pope, the one who commissions Michaelangelo to do a bit of work here and there-very amusing.

The Mark Smeaton parts were a bit silly, and partly for shock value and more sex, but I think they were trying to show a bit about the 'common man' and how all the men fascinated by Anne go to their doom except Thomas Wyatt, who as he says, was the only one who WAS guilty of ever having slept with her.

The scenes between Henry and Anne which used to light up the screen become more and more sad, as he realizes he has turned his whole world upside down for a woman who lies to him.

Also notice his loyal cortege of friends is now gone and the court rooms are curiously bare considering how busy the palace would have been at that time.  He is frequently alone, and even in the crowd scenes, he is with one person or another manuipulating.

We start out so romantically with Anne, but soon  they are barely in the same county, let alone room. (GREAT acting). The death of John Fisher and Thomas More are the beginning of the end, and Anne's paranoid delusions and pathetic attempts to get back her power are painful to watch, they are so moving.

Sad to say, Anne lasted less than 3 years, but the chaos she caused certainly makes true what he says to Chapuys--I want my reign to be remembered forever. --No doubt not the long and bloody and scandalous one it ended up being.

And yet the union of Anne Boleyn and Henry VIII gave us the worst and best queens England ever had, Mary (the Bloody)and Elizabeth, and shaped its destiny just as Anne herself did.

We can never be sure how much her zeal for 'reform' was a grab for money, power, and in defiance of the church in trying to push through the divorce and marrying Henry, but there is no doubt the protestant reformation had the door opened through her and her family's cunning.

The costumes, settings and acting make this, while not perfect, certainly an excellent way to savor history and the period, and it is a lot more historically accurate and uses many of the actual documents of the time.

One complaint-why is Suffolk so wooden now-he always looks agrrieved but never says anything. By the way, keep an eye on his wife-she was slated to be wife #7 of Henry's!! but Katherine Parr lived and he died! Phew, lucky escape....

Can't wait to see how the Third Season plays out with the Seymours and how far we get with his other 4 wives...