They seem to think that all they have to do is say Blu-ray to sell a classic film for the 4th time.  First there was the VHS tape, then the Laser Disc, followed by the DVD (2 releases)and now comes THE Blu-ray.  However, this Blu-ray is DEFECTIVE!  While it's possible for any film transfer to have little problems once in a while, this problem runs through the entire film.  What's more disturbing is that they cared so little for what might just be, the BEST AMERICAN MUSICAL EVER MADE.  And if "My Fair Lady" isn't the best, then it's "West Side Story", but in either case, "My Fair Lady" deserved more respect then to pass off an old defective transfer to master this new Blu-ray release.  While there are a number of problems with this Blu-ray release, the worst of the problems run from beginning to end and affects about 20% of each side of the picture.  It appears as a loss of contrast when compared to the center of the screen.  In some parts of the film it appears to become even worse.  It would appear that regular DVD's look better than this new Blu-ray.

If accurate aspect ratios are important to you, this Blu-ray of what was originally a 70mm Super Panavision film, should have an aspect ratio of 2.20:1, if it had been transferred from a 65mm negative or 70mm print.  This Blu-ray disc is 2.35:1, indicating it was originally transferred from a 35mm print.  They might have gotten away with the 2.35:1 AR transfer, had it not been a poorly done defective low resolution transfer, having a little too much edge enhancement, which can be annoying at best.

"My Fair Lady", which was originally made by Warner Bros. and personally produced by then Warner Bros. head, Jack L. Warner, was, at 17 million dollars, one of the most expensive films ever made at that time.  However, Warner Bros. is NOT responsible for the production and sale of this defective Blu-ray, that dishonor goes to CBS/Paramount.  I'm sure if that if Mr.Warner could see what was done to his "Fair Lady" with this Blu-ray, he would turn over in his grave.  This Blu-ray has a rating of "D" for DON'T BUY....until they come out with a Blu-ray that is befitting "A Lady".