There's just something about a movie that has children killing adults and running the show that freaks everyone out. I guess it plays on the same kind of fears that movies that have bee's taking over the world do. We treat children like they're a nusance, so they rise up against their aggressors, adults, and most likely succeed because adults discredit kids. Huh......

Well that's at least what I got from this movie.

When I watch a horror movie I look for three basic things. First, is the acting up to par and is the movie well made? Second, how are the special effects and the death sequences? Finally, does the end of the movie deliever and wrap things up?

In the first category this movie does really well. You can tell from the beginning that the movie was probably made on a very small budget, but the camera work, and everything else was done extremely well. The acting is also pretty good for such a low budget movie. Terminator girl does a terrific job, as well as all of the kids, especially the leader. Malaki, or the red-headed bully stumbles over his lines, but he does a half decent job. So yeah, the movie delievers here.

* Oh, something to watch for. When the main character is running away from the children who are chasing him, and calling him lap lander, or excuse me OUT-lander, he runs into the barn. It is dark in the barn and he "hits" his head on a beam. It's incredibly hilarious because you can sooooo tell, he fakes it.

Secondly, does the movie have decent special effects and death sequences? Yes and no. Yes because some of the special effects are pretty good, but there isn't that many of them, nor killing sequences. The kids go on a rampage in the beginning and then, that's pretty much it. There is a lot of suspense in the movie, which does creep you out, but no real need for crazy special effects. The special effects are okay. At the end they look pretty cheesy, but hey low-budget movie so what are you going to do?

Finally does the ending wrap the movie up? This movie certainly does. It takes all the elements of the story and wraps them up into a neat pacakage at the end. Like I said, the special effects are a little cheesy but alright. It's nothing you can't see coming, but it has some little twists which keep you watching.

So all in all, this is a pretty good movie. It's gotten a bad wrap for some reason, but there will always be a book versus movie battle for every book they turn into a movie. I never have read the book, so I can't throw my two cents in here. Anyway, it would be worth the buy at Walmart for 6.50, rather than renting it.