The subtle masterpiece and academy award winner for Best Picture of 1980, "Ordinary People", is Robert Redford's surprising directorial debut. Perhaps it shouldn't be surprising though, when recognizing how Redford's delicacy and quiet appeal on screen greatly reflects and triumphs in "Ordinary People." 
This heart-wrenching, character-driven film, based on Judith Guest's novel, evolves around the lives of an upper-class suburban family in Chicago. The story centers on the troubled son's perspective, Conrad Jarrett (played astoundingly by Timothy Hutton), who is painfully struggling to assimilate into high school and home life after months in a mental institution for attempted suicide. His transition is awkward and difficult as desperate and agonizing efforts to connect with his heartbreakingly distant and broken mother, Beth, (played by Mary Tyler Moore) seem tragically hopeless.  His father, Calvin (Donald Sutherland) tries hastily to assure his son, but is hindered with denial. Conrad's lonely quest is an endless search for belonging and normalcy at school and at home, which appears unachievable in the shadow of his recently dead older brother whom his mother deeply favored and his grave depression and self-conscience recovery. However, his helplessness is lessened as he begins to attend weekly therapy sessions with Dr. Berger, (Judd Hirsch) who slowly unlocks the boy's mysteries and inner torment. 
"Ordinary People" is carefully crafted and refreshingly raw, yet thoughtful study of an `ordinary' type of family falling apart at the seams. The plot may appear classic - the troubled upper-middle-class teenager who can't live up his parent's standards, set by another more favored child - and perhaps it is, certainly told more than once - as illustrated in great coming-of-age movies like "Stand By Me." However, this is an absolutely original endeavor - revolutionizing the `family drama.' For "Ordinary People" is truly about ordinary people, portraying the downward spiral of the Jarrett family with such honesty. Now, when you read the word honesty, you probably imagine people losing control and you probably imagine harsh reality - perhaps you are under the impression that "Ordinary People" is an `in your face' portrait of rampant emotion. And it is to some extent - except you, the observer, may not pick up on that. And that's what distinguishes this film from its peers. And that's why I'm going to let you, the intelligent viewer, decide what you can get from watching it, instead of pointing out to you what my interpretations are of the various themes.
The melancholy and subdued, yet suspenseful and heartrending approach is un-comparable and so well tackled by Redford. He certainly accomplished the task of gradually developing so many layers to each character without unrealistically shoving it down the audience's throats. And the ensemble cast each gave memorable performances, Timothy Hutton at times revealing more through body language than words, Mary Tyler Moore giving an un-characteristic, almost chilling portrayal, and Donald Sutherland and Judd Hirsch also incredibly engaging. So often, we as movie-goers begin to label certain characters on the huge cinema screen as like us, when in fact it is very rare that a film comes along in which the characters are so truly like us that it is almost as if one is experiencing rather than just watching. And fortunately, this is one of those very rare films and I STRONGLY recommend adding this powerful, touching story to your video collection! Because it is art like this that makes you realize that less really can be much, much more! And I will hint to you that the basic plot is only the simple surface of this intriguing story, so I beg you to buy it and discover all its exciting layers.