Ok, so this isn't oliver stone's masterpiece. There are holes all over this thing. The timing of events, the clumsy way he tries to get his message across. Some of the characters are almost wooden, put there just to  fill in the pieces. Stone's objective obviously is to tell the viewer about  the terrible human rights situation in el salvador so americans realize  they were funding the murder of innocent people. He uses the then, recent  historical events of that country to make his point. The murders of arch  bisop romero, the killing of the 5 american church women ect. Stone makes  his point somewhat but feels he has to interject some dialogue in certain  places to make it clear just in case he is not getting through to the  viewer. There is one scene where boyle(woods) basically summarizes the  entire objective. 
So, what makes this movie worth 5 stars? This movie is  incredibly energetic and unique. It would be an easy cliche to make the  central character, boyle(woods), some sort of hero, a white american  avenger who wants to save el salvador's people. No, boyle is a lowlife who  has lost his journalistic credentials, his wife and son and can't keep his  head out of a bottle of booze. Doyle is self serving. He's not there to  help el salvadoran's but to rectify his own lost opportunities. So he hears  about the explosive situation down there and decides to go. James belusi  plays the fired disc jockey who reluctantly  heads south with boyle not  having a clue what he is getting into. When he begins to have reservations  boyle tells him about all the cheap women and booze down there. Now i can't  imagine what driving from san francisco to el salvador would be like but it  doesn't matter because in a couple of minutes they arrive at the salvadoran  border and all hell breaks loose. From that moment on the movie is non stop  action as people are dropping like flies.  
The james woods character  alone makes this a 4* movie. This is his finest role and i believe, his  finest performance and that is saying a lot. This is a character that is  almost killed and castrated so many times he's like die hard. Despite this  there are several incredibly funny moments. The woods character is so  amusing it's hard to take him serious when he gets preachy about the  violence around him. The james belushi character is similar. He wants to  get the hell out of there but doesn't have any money so he makes the most  of it by drinking and picking up whores. 
One thing i didn't like about  this movie was the depiction of the revolutionaries. Wood's character and a  photographer friend played nicely by john savage, get permission to follow  and report on the guerillas. Stone depicts these revolutionaries like they  were hippies living in some commune.
Overall this is a very powerful and  entertaining film. Truly different. All the performances are good but it is  james woods who steals the show. He should have won an oscar for this. Buy  this one and also buy romero. Two great movies about the same general topic  from two different perspectives.
..................socks  
.................socks