MASSIVE SPOILERS HERE
So, yes, I finally saw it. Did I like it being a die-hard Desperado fan? Yes... and no. 
There are a few things that I would have liked a little bit different about OUATIM. The characters were intriguing and somewhat developed. You learn that El Mariachi and Carolina actually married and had a child but Carolina and the unnamed daughter were brutally gunned down (then again, this isn't much of a secret as the news sites wrote this in the descriptions.) In the very beginning, you see that Carolina became as deadly as El Mariachi with skills and tools and weapons that were wonderfully unbelievable and beautifully executed. However, Carolina's short presence ends up disappointing but understandable; El Mariachi is pretty much the Latino equivalent of the lone gunman -- he can't be with someone else which is probably why her character was killed off. It could also be attributed to the rumor that Salma Hayek has simply gotten too big and arrogant to play Carolina; her screen presence is so very small that one wonders why she was given first billing before Johnny Depp who very much was a more major character than she was in this flick. 
With that in regard, Johnny Depp was wonderfully phenomenal and a right b*****d as the renegade CIA agent. He's cool, cocky, calm and confident and I loved him. Johnny Depp is an incredible actor, able to morph himself into any kind of personality he wants to. Take a look at any of his last 10 films and you'll see that he can be mistaken for having a multiple personality disorder. 
Antonio's presence is actually smaller than that of Depp. Interestingly so, he steps back in this version to give off more of the legendary stance; a myth or a legend animated in the background. His screen presence is just as calm and collect but reserved in order to bring Depp to the foreground. 
What about Mariachi's buddies? I loved Campa and Quino in Desperado. They were even more mysterious than Mariachi himself as well as being more brutal. "Why don't you call your friends?" says Carolina. "Campa? Quino? They would destroy the city," says El Mariachi. This time they're played by Enrique Iglesius and an unknown named Marco Leonardi. I wasn't too thrilled about Enrique, given he's just as much a cheesy singer as his dad but his role was fairly funny. Apparently, he's a bit of a male hooker and his buddy more of a drunk. But, their guitar cases are nasty as well -- Enrique's being a flame-thrower and Marco's being a bomb with deadly results. 
In regards to the rest of the film, it is a bit choppy with most of the major characters having really small bit parts. I was dying to see Mariachi in action as he had been so well in Desperado but unfortunately his action scenes are very short, granted much more skilled than in the previous two movies for his scenes are just fluidly flawless but limited. 
One gripe I have is that El Mariachi actually receives a name, that being "El" is a small one but it was better when he was simply known as the mysterious Mariachi player rather than Cheech Marin's character saying: "We call him 'El'." 
Willem Dafoe and Mickey Roarke also are minor characters. I swear, they only must have filmed for maybe... two weeks? They really weren't around as much. More of the minor characters played heavier than any of the first billed, which really surprised me. 
It's also LONG. It's about 2 hours from what I clocked and I found myself a bit restless. Still entertaining but lengthy. It's also not nearly as funny. It has it's moments but nothing like the scene in Desperado where Tarantino is following the dealers in the back who are dragging the body of his buddy leaving a trail of blood being anxiously mopped up by a goon. 
It's also more gory. There's a confrontation scene which actually made me cringe which I won't describe but you'll know what it is when you see it. 
Overall, it's good. I would have liked a handful of things changed but I could see myself owning it (probably in a trilogy box set.) Is it as good as Desperado? I don't think so but interestingly enough, the critics love this flick vs. Desperado which they crucified mercilessly. Because I loved the characters so much from the first, I give it a solid "B". 
Check it out if you like. Desperado fans -- Definitely.  El Mariachi fans -- *Shrugs* It's nowhere near like the very first, but neither was Desperado