Those were the words of "Gus", John C. Riley(the more i see of this guy the more i like him)is the big hearted,battle worn,FAITHFUL,TRUSTY O'l catcher in this baseball guy movie turned LOVE STORY. This is the story of Billy Chapel. A once great pitcher for the Detroit Tigers on the brink of retirement. It's a story of a man who's got the biggest decision of his life/career to make...being traded by the new owners of the ball club and keep playing but for another team other than the only team he has ever known Professionally...or retirement?...If you're a use to be athlete...this tugs at your heart, taking you back to the last time you were able to suit up and play the greatest game in the world...baseball! Billy is a man who's obviously in love with the game and is having a heck of a time letting her go. Now by using the word "her'...i can describe both the game of baseball and Billy's "on again,off again" relationship with Jane Aubrey(the very Beautiful Kelly Preston), a New York Fashion magazine Editor who's more than a lil' hesitant with Costner's character's old school approach with their realtionship. Billy thinks (like i and countless other guys have) like a typical guy who takes advantage of a good thing to the point that he drives it away. Billy is old school and he isn't willing to commit to Jane, which she deperately needs him to do. Jane has been done wrong in the past more than a few times. She's a single mom of a teenage girl( played by the very CUTE Jena Malone)who's starting to challenge her mom's ways. In all ways this movie is just about life! Single parenting, being a stubborn man, relationships with friends, saying goodbye, the love of a good woman... and o'h yeah...the deepest love a man can have for the game of Baseball. The movie is set during the last game of what has been a very rough season for Billy and the Tigers. Inning by inning Billy goes through refections of his relationship with Jane and Heather(Jena's character), his career as a dominant pitching god for one team,the Detroit Tigers & everything from a career threatning injury and just plain old woman trouble. He's had a good life as a ball player but his career is coming to a close and now he has the decision of retirement or playing for another team. All the while his heart is with Jane but he is too stubborn to tell her how he really feels and just about pushes her completely away. Like a typical guy, Billy realizes and goes after her at all costs...Did i forget to mention the fact that this is all going on during a game that Billy just so happens to be pitching a perfect game in?...news of the sale of the Tigers forces Billy's hand to make a decision of retirement or trade...this triggers Billy's reflections. He realizes that's he's in love with Jane and he needs more than just "the game" to be complete in life. In typical Movie fashion Billy pitches the perfect game, retires, and goes after Jane. In the ending scene,Billy pours his heart to Jane at the airport in New York...he palns to chase her overseas but by chance she delays her flight to watch the game and is wrestling with her own feelings for Billy and trusting him. All in all, this is a great movie especially for the Costner buffs out there. I personally love all of Costner's baseball movies and i'd put this one at the top of my personal list! This is not a movie to rent, it's a definate buy!!! Billy Chapel is the man everybody wants to be and the man that no man wants to admit that he is...?!