The thing I love about this movie is its originality....usually, the soldiers in combat films are nothing but pure actors thrown into battle fatigues, given a gun and told to act. Full Metal Jacket is different...we  endure the recruits' pain and suffering through Parris Island boot camp,  and live with them during the grisly war....and that's why FULL METAL  JACKET brings you close to the real thing.
But anyway, on to the  storyline and so forth. The plot involves a young Marine recruit, Private  Joker, who gets through Marine Bootcamp by excelling in everything  possible. He is then thrust into Vietnam as a journalist....and it is in  Vietnam that he always complains he "never sees enough action."  Well, the "action" comes to him, but he soon discovers it is not  all fun and games.
Though Modine's narrative can be a bit flat and  one-sided at times, the acting in this film is absolutely superb. Also, I  have noticed in war films that the U.S. Marine Corps always seems to be  left out. Well, FULL METAL JACKET almost glorifies the Marine Corps, and  you don't see too many movies that give the USMC a lick of respect (that  they completely deserve). 
I should also comment on the military  accuratness of this film....all the moves are right, no one ever seems to  be out of step in marching formations, and, according to my father, a  Vietnam-Era Marine Corps veteran, the harshness of bootcamp....and  especially the portrayal of the Drill Instructor, is exactly how it was  (is). 
Another great thing about FMJ is its dark tones, that last from  beginning to end. The deaths in this film are very graphic, and Stanley  Kubrick puts you in a hell (making you feel as if you were there) that you  want to leave right away and escape the horrors of war. That's what makes  FMJ a very powerful movie. A nice touch was the eerie ending, and the  classic Rolling Stones song at the end (the name escapes me).
The only  thing unrealistic about this movie is that Private Lawrence  "Pyle" never lost any weight, in fact, he looked as if he gained  a few pounds. Any Marine will tell you that the "fat kid" in  their boot camp platoon left basic training a fit, ready-to-kill war  machine...I guess Pyle's lack of weight loss goes to show us that the  catering provided by FMJ's producers was very good!
All in all, though, a  graphic and moving film that leaves you a bit shocked and a LOT  entertained...it should be in everyone's collection.