I'm giving the entire Simpsons TV series two stars: Five stars for the first six seasons, and one star for the subsequent 17. Those of you reading this who are under the age of 20 or 25, I don't really expect you to understand. You are, after all, very loyal to a show that's been around as long as you have, and you also may not have been exposed to their "golden years." You also did not experience the thrill of waiting anxiously for Thursday night to come around so that you and your family could gather around the TV at 8:00 for what was almost guaranteed to be a non-stop laugh fest every single week. These were the days before reality TV, when families actually could have "family time" in front of the TV without the idea of marrying the words "TV" and "family time" being absolutely repulsive.

Back when The Simpsons aired Thursdays at 8:00, I would always keep my little eye on the digital clock on our VCR, and when 8:20 and 8:25 came around, I would get a little bit sad because I knew my show was almost over for another week. Flash forward 15 years, and I'm looking at the clock to see how much longer before this crap finishes.

I don't mean to sound like a nostalgic "in my day" old man (I'm only 30, after all), but I feel I have to stress the importance of nostalgia when talking about this show because without an understanding of that, you young readers cannot understand what this show meant to us. It was, at one time, one of the smartest, funniest, most daring and wittiest show ever written.

Never in my life have I seen a show go from being one of the greatest TV show of all time to being one of the worst. Such a drastic swing in quality is almost unheard of. But that's what The Simpsons has done. Watching The Simpsons now is like watching your favorite uncle dying of cancer on his deathbed...he was the life of the party once, and now he is reduced to merely a shadow of his former self, one that you can't help mourn. Make no mistake about it: this show has died. Don't think for a second that it will ever be revived. You are lucky to laugh twice in an entire 30 minutes. Back when this show was in its prime, you could count on laughing twice before the opening credits were completed.

If you haven't done so, PLEASE go back and watch the first couple of seasons. Forget that their voices sound a little shakier, or that the animation was not as polished. Look at the content. Because you Family Guy generations haven't got a clue. You are mistaking shock value with comedy. "Shock" can be funny sometimes, but ultimately it's a lazy way to get some cheap laughs. You will laugh, but you will never experience the deep-down laugh of pure satisfaction...all you are getting is "junk food" laughs: the crap that gets the job done on a superficial level but which doesn't quite touch that deep-down place, the crap that you feel guilty and a little bit hollow for laughing at afterwards. Folks, I'm sorry to say, but The Simpsons is now junk food. This is a show that absolutely needs to die, now!!