Set against the backdrop of the Boer War in South Africa at the beginning of the 20th Century, Breaker Morant is perhaps the best film to ever come out of Australia, and one of the best to come out of anywhere.  Based on a true story, three Australian officers serving with the British Army are tried for the murder of some Boer kommandos and a German missionary.

What the Australians soon discover is that the Brits have no intention of providing their "Colonial" comrades with a fair trial.  It is, pun intended, a "kangaroo" court.  This is because the British, fearing the Germans may enter the war in support of the (Dutch) Boers, hope to placate them by convicting the Australians.  Of course, the British (as well as the Germans) are looking well beyond the war effort to future prospects re the gold and diamonds of South Africa.

The drama is played out in the courtroom with the use of flashbacks to flesh out events as they are brought up in the trial.  At issue is whether or not the Australians, serving in a counter-guerrilla force in the Northern Transvaal, had orders from their British commanders to execute Boer prisoners, and furthermore, whether they murdered a German missionary suspected by the Australians of spying on behalf of the Boers.

The leading roles are played by Edward Woodward as the poet-warrior Harry "Breaker" Morant, and Australian Bryan Brown as Lt. Handcock, the primary defendents in the trial, and their military lawyer, played by Jack Thompson, another Australian.  Each of the above deliver Oscar-deserving performances, and they are not let down by their fellow cast members, either.  This is indeed a superior production, from script to scenery to editing to acting, and everything in between.

The film also provides a credible discussion on the conduct of counter-guerrilla (counter-insurgency) warfare and the difficulty of following vague or questionable orders regarding the treatment of prisoners, not to mention the bitterness of being betrayed by the master that one serves.  The action sequences are compelling and detailed, but this is not to suggest that the courtroom scenes are any less interesting...some of the most memorable moments come from the verbal sparring in the courtroom.  Both the British judge and the Australian defense lawyer (played by Aussie Jack Thompson) truly excel in this film, on par with the performances of Woodward and Brown, who nonetheless deliver some of the best lines in the film.  Look for Woodward's "I shot him under Rule 303!" a reference to the .303 Enfield rifle in service by the British Army at that time, and Brown's irreverent response to the the staid British inquiry into his "entertainment" of married Boer women, "...may I say that a slice off a cut loaf is never missed!"  The film is full of great quotes, including Morant's final exhortation to the firing squad: "Shoot straight, you bastards...don't make a mess of it!"  Makes one regret that we haven't seen more from Down Under.

Following is the Breaker's epitaph, taken from the final writings of the real Harry Morant and edited for the movie:

It really ain't the place nor time to reel off rhyming diction,
But yet we'll write a final rhyme whilst waiting crucifixion!

But we bequeath a parting tip for sound advice of such men,
Who come across in transport ships to polish off the Dutchmen!

If you encounter any Boers you really must not loot'em!
And if you wish to leave these shores, for pity's sake, don't shoot'em!

Let's toss a bumper down our throat before we pass to Heaven,
And toast the trim-set petticoat we leave behind in Devon.