It should come as no surprise that an adult who dragged her best friend to see Ratatouille would add Alvin and the Chipmunks to her must see list.  Naturally my opinion would be biased based on my passion for cute, little, animated rodents whose furry appeal outweighs any fault of a movie script, still after reading some negative comments, I must post a review of my own.

While some critics attributed the young adult appeal to the 1980's cartoon version of the Chipmunks, they are overlooking the fact that the Chipmunks date back to the baby boomers, and their legendary fame rides on their yearly revived Christmas classic.  They are also undermining the effect of an identifying hit song and the fact that a high pitched tune, supposedly sung by animals is enough to bring adults back to the point where they once believed.  And since I haven't seen such comingling of humans and animation since Roger Rabbit, I'm inclined to think Simon, Theodore, and Alvin are real.

The film starts with these lovable critters fending for themselves in the forest until they get swept away with their Christmas tree that gets hauled into the office of Jett Records where Dave Seville is trying to sell his latest song.  No longer of interest to the company's top executive "Uncle" Ian, a discouraged Seville takes off after reclaiming a basket of muffins, where the chipmunks sought refuge after abandoning their tree.  Dave unknowingly takes them home, and the rest is history.

Naturally their rise to fame is not all fun and games because otherwise there wouldn't be a plot, which is at best predictable, and at worse, lame.  The unscrupulous Uncle Ian could have ended up penniless, since he would have been dragged into court by the record industry, animal rights activists, and the family court system, had this been a - do I dare say it - real story.  Likewise, Seville's love life could have been more developed, and the film could have offered some explanation as to why these chipmunks were blessed with the gift of voice.  But who would go to see a movie titled Alvin and the Chipmunks for the plot???

For one adult who was taken in by the main attraction, this movie made me a believer.  I actually thought the beginning of the movie was semi-biographical of Dave Seville's life.  Could he have been a songwriter who was told that no human would record his songs?  Could it have been rejection that inspired him to create the chipmunks?

The answer to both questions is "No."  Dave Seville, like Santa, is fictional, as it is a stage name for the Chipmunk's true creator Ross Bagasarian, for whom the movie was rightfully dedicated.  But it's the name "Seville" that comes to life with every shout of "Alvin!"  And if we can accept that some reindeer fly, then why can't some chipmunks sing?