I read over some of the other reviews putting this movie at an "average" rating, but I kinda disagree. First off, I think the director and producer put this movie together perfectly. In case you do not know about this movie, Ill start off by describing it a bit... The main theme lies in the thriller/mystery department, so if you like these kind of films, you will most definitely like this movie. The two main charactors in the movie are Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie. Denzel plays a disabled Crime Scene Investigator and Angelina plays a rookie police officer who laters finds out her talent as a crime scene investigator. The setting of the story takes place in New York City (which is a perfect spot for this type of movie) and is cast in modern day life. Basically, the plot of the movie is about a phsyco murderer who, very strategically, plans killings by using his job as a taxi cab driver to kidnapp people. I dont want to get too in depth, but the good guys would be Denzel and Angelina and a few other police bureau workers who try to solve the mystery behind all the kidnappings and hopefully get to the crime scene in time to save innocent people. You might have preconcieved notions about this movie being kind of average, but what makes this movie stand out is its outstanding film features. By features I mean, great music and excellent effects (everything such as lighting, settings etc). If your going to watch it, here are some VERY recommended suggestions...
1. Make sure its dark- 50% of the movies general "effect" comes from the ambience in which you watch it. 2. Watch on a fairly large television with a fairly good sound system. - try to get the best TV and sound system to watch the movie otherwise dont even bother with the movie. 3. Must get it on DVD! - Dont watch the VHS version, I saw it and its horrible. Film quality is bad and it doesnt include all the extras which tell about the Bone collector. Sound is also improved on DVD version. Any way you look at it, you need to give the Bone Collector a try. Great movie for all.