I feel very sorry for all the people like Leonard Maltin that can look at a film like Taxi Driver and not understand it.  These people say things like "an ugly, gory decent into violence".  And they're right.  But they can't seem to see the difference between this movie's violence and  the violence you normally find in movies.
  The film is violent, but  it is not about violence.  It's about loneliness ("You talkin' to me?  I'm the only one here").  Some people can say that Travis is a sick  man (i.e. Leonard Maltin)or a psycopath (i.e. jcack)(which is completely  inaccuate) and look away from the film.  These people I feel sorry for  because they don't dare to let the movie inhabit them and that's what it's  supposed to do.  What makes it one of the best films ever made is the fact  that it never leaves Travis.  It makes you relate to him.  Every single one  of us has looked in the mirror and said similar things.  And we've all had  some thoughts along the same lines as him (feel like a pimp that has a  twelve year old girl hooking for him should be shot).  We don't all act on  them,  and that's what makes this such a powerful film.  It has us go along  with Travis and we care for him (we start to say "oh no, don't take  Betsy to the porno theater!").  We feel the rejection when he is  dumped.  We feel the fear disguised as hate and it makes us uncomfortable.  And it should.  It takes our thoughts to the next level as he purchases  guns and we wonder, but we still relate to him.  And then at the end there  is a violent, graphic shootout that is brilliant because by that point we  are Travis.  It scares us to know what we are all capable of.  Most people  won't admit it and that's why the film is so brave.
  As for the ending  (many people think it's hard to believe Travis wouldn't be in jail), who's  to say it happened or not.  It could be a dream or a halucination after he  has died, or it could be real.  It doesn't matter.  That ending is very  important.  It is of great significance that we see Travis at ease and then  reconciling with Betsy before he looks up and is frightened by his own  reflection.
  As for the people who don't appreciate this film, I  strongly suggest that you watch it again with an open mind.  After all,  you've only got one brain, it would be ashame to waste it.