This film is pure comedy from start to finish - if you like bacon you''ll love this flick from Chuck Norris because it's packed with ham; hammy acting, hammy dialog, hammy themes, hammy music etc etc etc.

I won't bother to bore you with the films basic premise since it's the least interesting aspect - it's not like you're looking for a challenge right? Chuck Norris makes incredible comedy films in much the same way Steven Seagal does! Who knew that Norris had the raw comedic skill to play his own straight man in what has to be the equivalent of a spoof movie played for serious.

One thing that anybody watching this film needs to get straight is that it's really about beer. You heard me, beer ... that's right - it's all about how much beer the Ranger can drink whilst remaining completely fit in spite of it. It's all about drinking beer at the most inappropriate and unrealistic moments and letting the audience know that he's a real man because he can simply consume the stuff morning, noon and night, without the slightest consequence to his person. When does he get time to eat or train? He must be absolutely off his gourd 24/7! Let us never entertain the thought that he's drinking light beer ... or on the job for heavens sakes!

Some of the greatest moments of pure hilarity come when his dog is shot in a late night raid by the drug kingpins boys ... when he finally reaches the dead doggy he kneels down and punches the dirt with his fist then caresses the doggy with the same hand. This is pure genius as it illustrates that he can be violent and yet tender at the same time. The presence of his chick in the doorway wearing nothing but his shirt only serves to punch up the sexual tension seemingly hidden in this scene and underpin that while Mcqualude may have lost his dog he's still gonna get lucky when he goes back inside. This is screen writing gold!

In earlier scenes McQualude comes home to his babe who has just been languishing on the bed all day in a see through gown - we presume just waiting for the Ranger to bless her with his hairy presence. He walks in and ignores her attentions instead heading to the fridge and cracking a can of beer ... he lays on his back on the bed with that beer on his chest and gives her the strong silent treatment while she sprawls on top of him determined to see if she can get a swig. He cracks a smile at scenes end and we know right there that he's got a soft heart and will likely share a beer with her. Right on McQualude!

Fast forward now where the Ranger meets up in town in an office with an Army General, an FBI guy, a Mayor, a D.A the head of the Rotary organization, general director of AMWAY etc to get the heads up on whats going down. He then heads out into the desert with the FBI dudes - Ranger in his ( get this ) nitro charged 4x4! For anybody that knows anything about 4 wheelers and or driving such I'll just let that simmer a moment as you now consider scenes where he's seen speeding along highways like a Ferrari in the same Nitro Charged vehicle much like the Batmobile would exit the Bat Cave; Super stuff indeed!

So once out in the desert in his Nitro 4 Wheeler he is traveling in convoy with the Feds in their own stock standard 4x4 - what happens next is pretty gripping stuff but it's teaches the audience a lesson about McQualude. The Feds who are in front of the Ranger get stuck on a little bit of gravel about the same size as everything else they've been driving over for the last 30 mins. Amazingly to my observant eyes I could not detect the slightest sign of them being cross axel'd or hung up with their diff! But don't let this get in the way of an exercise in superiority because The Ranger turns to his young partner and says " Let's show em what this thing can do".

McQualude does a quick maneuver and nudges them from behind and un-sticks the Feds vehicle from the pebbles they were mysteriously hung up on - to which one Fed exclaims to the other ..."What has he got there, a tank or something?". What the writers wanted us to learn here is that the Rangers vehicle is an extension of the Ranger himself and that he is superior in an unassuming and yet strong silent way. His truck drinks Nitro and he drinks beer ... together they are man and machine perfection! We are indeed a privileged audience and ought to think ourselves even lucky to be viewing a film like this about the Ranger.

After those intense moments in off roading we find the bad guys camp in the desert headed up by none other than Kung Fu's David Carradine. When the time comes at night for the Feds and McQualude to make their attack he gets shot and overcome after taking a few with him. A Helicopter lands and out gets Carradine with the Rangers chick who is also the Carradines chick ... confused? Don't be. So now they beat up on the Ranger a bit while the chick pleads for his release and Carradine decides to bury the Ranger in his Chariot like an old Viking. They chuck Norris into his Nitro machine of 4 wheeling superiority and begin to bury him, and it, alive with a huge front end loader smothering it with dirt.

What happens next is the central BEER axis point of the entire film - it's when the Ranger, his Nitro machine and a can of beer all fuse together, become one and by some hidden manifestation of all that is masculine Mcgyver their way out of certain death! So we now see the Ranger inside his truck cab, dirt pouring in over the vehicle ... the Ranger is still half conscious from his licking at the hands of Carradine but he manages in his near death like state - AND with eyes closed - to reach for a can of beer. We see his can cracking finger weakly hovering over the ring and he tries to summon the strength to crack one last beer ... he finally cracks it, takes a long swig and then pours the rest over his head in a show of cryptic defiance to his wanton alcoholism! He doesn't want to get drunk just yet ... but he wants a taste and the rest, the rest is for luck!

Just as the Ranger is done fusing his body with beer he reaches for the ignition, hit's the nitro super charger, digs his foot into the floor and screams in agony as he wheel spins his way out of his own burial ... the entire scene is ejaculatory as he bursts from the ground like a risen phoenix, as fluid would shoot from a freshly cracked can of beer! He kicks the door open and manages to blow a bad guy away while his partner takes care of the last few. When all are dead he rolls out of the truck cab a spent force and looks to all as though dead. His partner comes over and says "Don't die on me now Ranger" ... it's kind of like the dead doggy scene in reverse now ... but then just as we think McQualude might be a goner ... he looks up and says ...

"GET ME A BEER KID!"

This really should have been the end of the film right there ... the writers missed a golden op but it goes on for a while yet through more action sequences replete with comedic timing to end with the anti climactic showdown between Carradine and the Ranger. I won't spoil the ending but suffice it to say it's not as complex as you're likely to believe at this late stage. Does he get his daughter back? You'll have to watch to find out.

I gave this film one star but I give it with great love and respect! I laughed all night long.