In The Bourne Supremacy, Bourne's story that began in The Bourne Identity is continued, but it's more gritty. For one thing, there's a new director. Greegrass's style is a little more in your face than Liman's is. The Bourne Identity seems to have a detached feel, whereas Supremacy seems more in the here and now. Matt Damon, again, does an honest, direct portrayal of Jason Bourne.

What I like about the Bourne series is there is no Hollywood foolishness here. Unlike Bond, which is overflowing with coolness and charm, Bourne presents the world as it really is and has more soul. In Bourne Supremacy, the world is a dark and dangerous place, and there are bad people out there who are trying to kill you. But there are also good people who want to help you and you have to depend on those people to survive. For example, in The Bourne Supremacy, the whole CIA isn't bad. There are good and bad people in it. The characters are treated as individuals. Each character has depth and is explored, the good and the bad. Another good thing is that instead of killing off people like they are nothing, Jason Bourne tries to save as many lives as possible. He actually maintains a solid relationship with a girl instead of using her for sex. Overall, the movie is very mature and serious, but it also isn't overly depressing. Much of the movie is filmed in the overcast city of Moscow.

I want to stress that The Bourne Supremacy is not just an action thriller, but it is also a drama. In terms of character development, Bourne's relationships with people and their relationships with each other, The Bourne Supremacy is much more involved and complex than almost any action movie I've seen. Not only is the Bourne Supremacy a stylish thriller, but is also very philosophical, which is something you wouldn't expect from an action movie. It goes into questions of remorse and forgiveness, like when Bourne travels all the way to Moscow to apologize to a young Russian girl for killing her parents. I was very impressed with this movie. It deserves a lot of credit.