"Callas Forever" is Franco Zeffirelli's cinematic tribute to his long-time friend and business associate, Maria Callas (also known as "LaDivina" ["The Divine One" or "The God"] by Italians, myself included.

This is a "what if" movie and Callas is portrayed by the terrific French actress Fanny Ardant who lip-synchs LaDivina's singing voice at the peak of its intense grandeur.

"Callas Forever" takes place in 1977 (LaDivina died that September, at 53 in her Paris apartment of heart failure), and by then her voice was "a shell of what it had once been." The fictional Larry Kelly (Jeremy Irons) argues that by lip-synching to her old recordings for a film, she will recapture the glory days leave a priceless legacy of a complete dramatic performance.

Callas only starred in one movie in her life, the lead in a non-singing role in Pasolini's "Medea." She is also captured on film in the PRICELESS Act II of "Tosca" on the DVD "Maria Callas at Covent Garden 1962 and 1964."

Zeffirelli does a spectacular job creating the fictional opera "Carmen" for cinematic purposes. In the end, perfectionist Callas asks that he destroy it because lip-synching, "...is not honest."

While portraying Callas, Ardant displays an amazing command of LaDivina's body language: the way her lips would curl, her intense glare, and her expressions.

Gabriel Garko is Marco, the handsome young tenor who plays Don Jos&eacute; in "Carmen." The music of Puccini, played throughout the film, along with Bizet's score for "Carmen" is incredible.

In one of the most intense scenes, the  "Sunset Boulevard" moment, Larry Kelly is ushered unannounced into Callas' Paris apartment by her housekeeper, Bruna. He observes the life-long insomniac Callas drinking wine with sleeping pills as she is singing along, devastated, to her old recording of "Madame Butterfly."

Thanks to Ardant, "Callas Forever" is a dramatic and compelling movie. I do not believe there is another artist out there who could ever play Maria Callas as brilliantly as she.

I am sincerely thankful to Franco Zeffirelli for introducing a new generation to the immortal Callas. I adore Callas and loved this movie. There are only two types of opera: before Callas and after Callas. Long live "LaDivina." "Callas Forever" is a perfect title as well!