This is a set I've had for some time and have now wanted to comment on.  Boy oh boy, this is truly a must have for any Shawn fan as it has 7 of Shawn's truly most remarkable matches that are still talked about to this day.  The first match up is an AWA match from 1986 known as the "New Year's Eve Bloodbath."  It has Shawn and Marty Jannetty the Midnight Rockers against Buddy Rose and Doug Somers.  This is a great tag match!  Shawn, in this match showed just how tough and good he could be as he bled buckets during the match.  Good match.  The next one is the IC title Ladder match with Shawn vs Razor Ramon at Wrestlemania X.  This is a very good match that single handily put Shawn on the map!  It is still one of the greatest performances that the industry has ever seen.  Gorilla Monsoon even stated that this was the best match he had ever seen.  This match was awesome and set the standard for others to follow.  Up next is the Iron Man match for the world title with Bret and Shawn at Wrestlemania XII.  This is quite possibly the best technicial match of the 1990's.  These guys just leave it all hanging out in the ring.  The match is hold for hold and move for move and one of the most exciting matches I have seen.  Simply put:  This may have been Shawn's finest hour.  Up next was the No Holds Barred match for the world title at In Your House Good Friends Better Enemies as Shawn took on Diesel.  This match was wild and out of control.  There are tables being used chairs and even an artifical leg used during the match.  This was a decent match but these two have had better like their Wrestlemania XI match.  Following that is the world title match at In Your House Mind Games between Shawn and Mankind.  Holy crap is this match freaking good.  I still say it was one of the most exciting title matches ever!  To me this is the match that made Shawn the "showstopper."  Mick has said that this match is either his favorite or 2nd favorite match in his career and after seeing it you can see why.  This match is good.  Up next is the first Hell in a Cell match with Shawn and the Undertaker.  This match to me is like watching a movie.  It starts slow and then builds and builds to a hell of a conclusion.  Much like the ladder match this one set the standard for the others to follow.  This match was off the chart good and bloody as hell as well.  This was one of the first times that we got to  see Shawn bleed in the WWE and boy did he!  Great match.  The last match is the return to action match he had at Summerslam 2002 when he took on Triple H in a non sanctioned match.  This match was very good as well.  After 4 years of retirement Shawn returns to the ring in all his glory!  This match does define what Shawn is:  "The icon, the showstopper, the main event."  Another 5 star match.  There are a ton of special features on this set as well that are worth the price of the DVD too.  All in all this is one very good DVD set.