This movie simply does not work. The only part of this movie that I enjoyed was the ending, being reminded that the Red Sox actually won the World Series last year. I am from Boston, and of course a Red Sox fan, therefore if I were not from Boston I would have found nothing in this movie enjoyable whatsoever.

  This movie is plagued by many things. First of all it is not funny. There is not one laugh out loud, or even one quiet laugh to oneself scene, in the entire 100 minutes.  Yes it was so bad I was counting.  The movie is completely unrealistic from the dialogue to basically everything else.  How can a school teacher afford box-seat season tickets to Fenway Park, a gorgeous huge apartment in the North End, and an exorbitant amount of highly expensive professional sports gear.

  Also note to Directors it has long been practiced by EVERY NETWORK in EVERY SPORT to not show fans on TV when they have charged the field.  This has been the case now for 10 years much to my, and probably everyone else's dismay.

  I really can't trash this movie enough.  Did i mention that the dialogue stinks? Well it does.

  THis movie is one of the most annoying movies that I have ever watched. I can't believe the same poeple that made Something about Mary had anything to do with this movie.

But we all know that the Farrelly Brothers have long since...well made anything remotely close to a good, decent, or even slightly funny movie....."Stuck together" and now this.

 Hang it up guys. There's obviously nothing left in your collective brotherly tank.  And speaking of tank...this movie tanks big time.

  But Fenway Park is as beautiful as ever, and being reminded of the Red Sox incredible comeback against the Yanks was almost worth the suck......well not quite. It puts a bad taste in my mouth that the Red Sox had anything to do with this terrible movie. But then again I can feel lucky that at least I am not a Knick Fan and have to put up with Whoopie Goldberg's atrocious "EDDIE". Was there ever a worse movie then that?

Well this is close.

If you liked "Eddie" staring Whoopie Goldberg then you might like this. If you thought Eddie stunk then you probably want to stay away from this stinkaroo as well. If you are a Red Sox fan then just put in the 2004 season DVD for the 320th time. Because you are going to have to watch it again after this movie to get the horrible taste out of your system.

and you didn't even take a swing.

This movie has no originality, Strike ONE

This movie has no laughs, Strike TWO

And this movie has absolutely no HEART Strike THREE

You're out.

You're out!!!