The movie starts with Ashton Kutcher doing a great James Bond imitation as Spencer the secret-agent assassin. While staying at a fancy resort in Nice, he has clandestine encounters, fights bad guys and plants a bomb on the belly of a helicopter.

Meanwhile Katherine Heigl as beautiful by shy and straight-laced Jen, is on vacation in Nice with her parents (Tom Selleck and Catherine O'Hara). In the elevator on the way to her room, she runs into shirtless Spencer  who is on his way to the beach and is unable to resist following him there. Spencer is completely aware that she is taken with him, but he's just as interested and he asks her to meet him later for a date.

The two fall madly in love, and Spencer renounces his spy world, marries Jen, and moves to her home in the states.

Cut to three years later. The two are still happily married, living in suburbia. Jen works for a high-tech company, and Spencer owns a construction company. But suddenly, with no warning, everywhere Spencer turns, someone is trying to kill him, starting with a doofus guy he has worked with for years and viewed as his best buddy. A $20 million bounty is on his head, and Jen is at risk just being around him.

I've been hoping for years that Ashton Kutcher would make a romantic comedy where the laughs weren't cringe-worthy, and this was it. I loved his character and the way he played him. I believed him as a spy, and I believed him as nice-guy husband who would do anything to make his wife happy--and to keep her safe.

I also thought Katherine Heigl was great. She is just wonderful at romantic comedy, and the chemistry between her and Ashton was a delight. Her evolution over the course of the movie from freaked out at finding out her husband's history in the middle of a barrage of bullets, to stepping up to the plate and fighting the bad guys with him was wonderful.

I also thought Tom Selleck and Catherine O'Hara were just terrific in this movie. They were funny and believable at the same time.

All in all, I had a wonderful time with this movie and I might even watch it twice--which is something I almost never do.