Apparently more is alot freakin' more. (No Spoilers Included)

The open-ended three sentence summary: Jack, Will, and Elizabeth are all fugitives from the East India Trading Company. Jack is also hiding from Davy Jones, who wants his soul. Each of them are trying to get a different thing to save their/their other friends' hydes. Following so far? I didn't think so.

Content Inappropriate for All Ages: A little pirate-like bad language, creepy nasty barnacle-things, blood, a few indirect references to "adult situations", lots of drinking, violence of many kinds, cannabilism, guts, and explosions.

Characters: 3 of 5 stars. Sure Jack Sparrow is back. And he's the same as ever. There is actually a bit of character development in Elizabeth, most notably. Jack has a tiny bit, and a few of the minor characters as well. But the film fails miserably on one important front: Will Turner. He has basically no character in this film at all. He is considerally more clever, but much more bland.

Plot: 3 of 5 stars. Okay, get ready for all the memorable jokes from the last movie: you'll be seeing them again shortly. The plot, laden with negotiations, was just too thick to follow here. Especially with all the sword fighting and explosions to distract you. There were a few sequences that served no plot point, but were included for entertainment value. (You'll know what I mean)

Cinematography: 3.5 of 5 stars. Liked the special effects, sets, staging, choreography, and props in the first movie? So did I. One thing I must note, the special effects were much better in this movie. But they went completely over the top. It's all just too detailed, too graphic for me to digest and appreciate. It actually was a little garish after the first hour and a half.

Music: 5 of 5 stars. Hans Zimmer bangs out another great swashbuckling score with a memorable and popular theme. The "Davy Jones organ part" is really memorable.

Impact: 3 of 5 stars. Though it kept my attention, I could still tell that it was 20 minutes too long. I wasn't too deeply impacted, mostly because of the thin characterizations. Still, I have to admit it was fun to watch. There were some memorable action/humor sequences. But be forewarned: the ending leaves you hanging, so you'll have to see "Pirates 3" if you want to know what happens next. A shameless marketing ploy. Grreeeaattt.

 And since I came to see Keira Knightley wear a cool pirate hat and completely "lose it" onscreen, I was happy.

All in all, 3 of 5 stars.