Like many other reviewers writing here, this is one of my most favorite motion pictures. This motion picture was very gripping when it was released. This is for several reasons. Pasternak is a very good writer and Doctor Zhivago was one of his best works. In the context of the Cold War, his novel and the movie it spawned brought a sense of much better understanding of the Soviet Union and the Russian revolution. The actors and the acting were both top notch and the cinematography is still some of the best around. 
All of that said. The style of this motion picture may be unfamiliar or even unpleasant to younger audiences. The films is by modern standards very slow. It was both a slow movie and a long movie by the standards and traditions common at the time it was made. Instead of striving for break neck action and rapid cutting, this film strives for a sense of glacial inevitability. Many of these scenes are against the backdrop of the Russian Winter. This setting accentuates rather than detracts from this pervasive feeling of inevitability. Not only does the editing support this pervasive mood, but the original film score supports it as well. The film music is well written and well performed. Following release of the film, the film music was immensely popular for several years. This film also sports excellent sets and costumes which contribute to the pervasive mood of the film.
The film has many appealing characters. As in classical tragedy, many of these characters are capable and even earnest people attempting to do good. Their various fates come as a result of major forces acting upon their lives. One of my favorite characters is Pasha the idealist and sometime Soviet commissar. The wealth of well developed characters in this film reflects the traditions of the Russian novel. And, the film makers give us adequate opportunity to meet them.
Finally, the film and the novel behind it is a love story. But, in this case it is a sad broken love of separation. 
Technically, the DVD transfer is excellent.