You can tell from the scene of a beautiful rowboat, on an english country stream, with Micheal Jayston (of Casino Royale, and Tinker, Tailor, Solder Spy fame) and Hywel Bennett (also of Tinker,Tailor) commandeared by 3 beautiful young ladies on a beautiful summer day. It becomes dreamlike.  John Barry's score is enchanting and strange and dreamlike as well.  The songs are short and never drag, but add to the mood, like something you might humm for a minute from a musical as you remember some scene or somebody you love.  The sets are JUST RIGHT for the book and very much faithfull to the books original.  Enchanting.  And with greats of english cinema like Flora Robson, Roy Kinnear (remember "Help" and "I should have been in Vivisection"), Dudley Moore (10, Cook and Moore), Peter Sellers (pink panther,The goons show, Henry Orient), Micheal Hordern, Spike Milligan (The Goons Show, The Three musketeers), Peter Bull (captain of the Louisa in African Queen) on and on.
  Fiona Fullerton is very beautiful and sings very well and feelingly.  But I would say that what dominates is an english sense of the absurd and love of puzzles and John Barry's score.
  I bought 3 versions (sad I know) of USA released DVD's and they were are garbage.  I liked them in a way because the 4x3 blurry representation kind of felt dreamlike in a way.  But when I bought the UK released widescreen version which is fairly clean and does show the very widescreen film version I was quit happy.  Well the $100 USD DVD player I just bought at Walmart if very basic (cannot remember where it was on two DVD's and fails to talk to the TV without prodding) it does play all regions and so plays this (I thought I would only play on my laptop) at 720p (upscaled).
  This version will fade before the 2010 release, but will come back in 3 years to crush it into non-existance.  Why is a story book still so good for children and adults? Because it has been perfected over 6000 years.  Do you know what a doormouse is?  It is large like a small squirrel. It has a long bushy tail. It has large eyes for night and you see it sleeping in the eves in Europe.  But you cannot know.  Why is CGI awful, because it is perfect for 13 year old boys and men who have minds that cannot grow further.  I work with computers but I do not want them telling me stories.
  Great sense of the material, great actors, enchanting music, intelligence will win over cartoons every time.