One thing that separates cinema from literature and the theater is verisimilitude.  True, with the advent of computer-generated animation, there is little one cannot do in the movies, but its greatest virtue remains its incredible ability to show us "life as such."  Drama on the silver screen HAS to be believable.  When films are full of incredible circumstances, they tend to be comical (e.g., Todd Solondz's work.)  Sci-fi and fantasy are also genres in which wild happenstance is easily accepted, because we suspend disbelief from the get-go.  It is extremely difficult to construct dramas that work this way, however, without giving them that melodramatic, daytime-TV feel.
"Sex and Luc&iacute;a" looks and feels like an art film.  It has an eye-catching title and an even more eye-catching photo on the cover.  The problems begin when the titles finish.  An unnamed couple has an idyllic one-night stand on a tropical island.  Later, the male tryster meets Luc&iacute;a in a bar.  He is a novelist and Luc&iacute;a, in reading his recent book, has become obsessed with him, following him around Madrid.  She professes her love for Lorenzo and tells him that she is moving in with him.  Stunned, he accepts.  Only later does he discover the great secret from his past... a secret that sets off a chain of events which threatens to drive Luc&iacute;a away and Lorenzo to disaster.  Throughout the next hour and a half... all of the players in the drama (most of who have nothing to do with each other) meet by random chance.  There is simmering sexual tension.
Sound a little corny?  You betcha.
There have been some fantastic Spanish directors down the years: Bu&ntilde;uel, Almod&oacute;var, Berlanga, etc.  Of those active, Berlanga is past his prime, Saura and Amen&aacute;bar make commercial films of questionable value and Aranda... while occasionally impressive... has nothing new to say.  Victor Erice is incredibly talented but has only made four films over the last 30 years.  This leaves us with "indie" directors, like Laura Ma&ntilde;&aacute; and "Sex and Luc&iacute;a" director Julio Medem, who use sensationalism to sell tickets.  And, after all, what is more sensational (so to speak) than sex?  The biggest problem with "Sex and Luc&iacute;a", though, is that it simply isn't sexy.  Or, rather: If you find naughty nannies who masturbate to films of their porn star mothers sexy, this is the film for you.  [N.B.: There are even hints at bestiality in the movie on which the astute viewer will pick up.]  And what's more... there are very few scenes of Luc&iacute;a actually having sex... and they're BORING!  The only plausible reason behind the film's title is that it looks good on marquees, a Blockbuster rack, etc.
Thankfully, director Medem gives "advantages" (?), such as an escape tunnel at the end of the film... something similar to what one might find in a "Donnie Darko" or "The Sacrifice."  Honestly, this is the kind of film that won't age well, in the same sense that "A Man and a Woman" no longer seems like this incredible romance movie that it once was believed to be.  In the end, the greatest "advantage" this film has to offer is that you don't have to buy it.  You can save your money for the next Almod&oacute;var flick.