I have watched enough vampire films, read enough vampire literature, and dreamed enough vampire dreams to feel comfortable saying this (Dracula 2000) is a good film that should have been a great film.  Why?  Simply put, the films' creators tried too hard to make the film too many different things.  Action film, horror, gothic romance, special effects and a touch of Biblical mythology for good measure.

  The cast is, for the most part, quite wonderful. Gerard Butler is superb as a dark, classically handsome Dracula.  Christopher Plummer plays Dr Van Helsing, his archenemy with aplomb and sincerity.  Justine Batemen is Mary, Van Helsing's daughter and the object of Dracula's desire.  The remaining cast is also very good, providing good action acting as well as some much-needed humour.
  At the same time, certain stereotypes are overplayed.  The Dracula of this film is represented as being over 2,000 years old.  In that long a life span surely he would have learned how to court a woman!  (Or, even if he did not, he must have known that terrorizing and/or killing the lady's family and friends would not endear him to the lady.) But Dracula goes right along his bloody path of terrorism, then stands before his chosen one almost desperately saying, "Everything I am is yours."
  I must assume it is only Wes Craven's penchant for bloodshed that allowed for the semi-gory killing scenes.  Blood is food for vampires; why would they waste it?
  Vampires loose in New Orleans for Carnival is a funny concept and the movie would have gained some real texture if there had been more interaction with that.
  The revelation of Dracula's true identity is interesting and new and well worth some of the lollygagging in the film  (i.e. the beginning where a bunch of thieves steal Dracula's coffin because they think it's filled with valuables.)

  After watching the deleted scenes and listening to Patrick Lussier's commentary I was even more convinced that this could have been a great re-telling if the directors had just focussed more on story development and not worried too much about special effects and "Matrix-style action."  I hope they try again and do better next time.