I CAN'T STOP RECOMMENDING THIS MOVIE TOO MUCH (to anyone who wants to hear it-- or doesn't, for that matter). Everything about it is just wonderful. From the topnotch performances (especially Lin Shaye as the rotten mother and Sam Huntington as the plagued Jem and Guiseppe Andrews as the worrying Lex) to the really dazzling direction (notice how the camera at times is 'all over the place', and the different techniques director Adam Rifkin uses-- there's even some splitscreen in it!) and offcourse the music...
I've always been a big KISS fan, but that isn't the reason why I like this movie so much, in fact KISS' performance in the final minutes is only so-so, partly because you can clearly see the're getting really old of age!
This movie introduced me to so many other great bands, like STYX, TED NUGENT and UFO-- there's even a song by forgotten glamrockers ANGEL!
Besides the music this movie has so many memorable scenes. From the beginning in the basement (notice the Led Zeppelin posters and copies of Hustler magazine), to the mess in school (Elvis the janitor is one mean guy and the girl who farts in the toiletroom) and the hilariously zany quest (those disco guys they run into, talk about Stella and Guido's)
to get to the KISS concert. And somehow it all ties up with some of our favorite KISS songs; 'Ladies Room', 'Christine Sixteen', 'Beth'etc.
You can clearly see director Adam Rifkin put so much love into making this movie. This really is his ode to his childhood. It's a shame the movie tanked at the boxoffice, but then again there really isn't an audience for this kind of movie (other examples are the also questionable receipts for movies like 'Dazed and Confused' and 'Almost Famous').
I've always been really into the seventies and this movie has so much to offer for nostalgia's sake. Especially the opening credits!! It's one dazzling montage of images that literally sucks you into that period of time and the band KISS we all so worshipped. Also notice the ancient boardgames inside Jem's closet and the paper the teacher is reading in class, which mentions the Guyana tragedy).
I only have a few little peeves and those are Eddie Furlong (He clearly is to old to play this part), Shannon Tweed (she's only in it because she's Gene Simmons' squeeze and she really can't act!) and the sometimes heavy duty badgering Jem gets from his mom, this movie is way to lighthearted for that-- although I can see the connection, with KISS in the seventies being accused of Satanism by churchgoers and rightwing politicans.
It doesn't spoil the fun though. The fact that I've seen this movie over twenty times already is proof that-- to me anyway.
If you haven't seen it, GO RENT IT OR BUY IT! It's a greay movie to watch with your friends while you enjoy a drink and a pizza.
YOU'LL BE LAUGHING OUT LOUD because of Hawks friends and their antics!
For closers, almost a star extra in my rating because of the great treatment New Line gave this movie while putting it out on DVD. The disc is jampacked with extras, including great audio commentary by the director and KISS and some outstanding videos form EVERCLEAR and THE DONNA'S.