Wow ... what a treat for those lucky fans who got to see this concert in person.  And a wonderful experience as well for those of us who only get to see it on DVD.

I'll just say it up front.  Neil Young is by far my favorite musical artist.  And his mellower "Harvest-type" acoustic singer-song writer music is what I like best about him.

Young is one of the most prolific and versatile artists of the rock era.  Because he has made so much music in such a variety of styles, if you go to one of his concerts in about 90 minutes, you are liable to hear everything from the lilting acoustic sounds of "Helpless" on is old Martin, all the way to the sensory bombardment of "Cinnamon Girl" shaking the rafters on his vintage Les Paul.

But, what you won't hear anymore, is Neil settling down to an entire evening of his most memorable folk/country classics in which he leaves out almost nothing that his fans have come to hear.

That's why this concert was so rare and why it will probably never happen again.

In the "Heart of Gold" concert filmed at Ryman Auditorium in Nashville, it's obvious that Young is content to pay homage to the tradition of the venue and the expectations of his audience ... just this once.

So what you get, is a veritable greatest acoustical hits concert that covers the highest points of his entire 30+ year career up until the "Prairie Wind" CD ... and in the end, as if you needed a bonus, you get one of the most memorable moments ever.

Stick around through the credits as Young performs a haunting version of the obscure "Old Laughing Lady" completely alone on the stage before an eerily deserted Ryman.  And I suppose this is where viewing the DVD is better than the concert itself, since apparently none of the audience got to hear this.  Could this possibly be the only time he's done this particular version?  Usually this song is done in sort of an upbeat country-fied form that I don't particularly care for.

Maybe so, I don't know for sure.

What I do know is this is the very best moment of what this Neil Young fan considers the very best concert ever!