The film of the highly accredited play was, in my opinion as effective as a film could be. I personally think that this show is only effective on a theatrical stage. There are very few bad things I would say about this movie. I am a huge fan of the play as a piece of amazing theatre and there are A LOT of cuts from the play as far as the dialogue goes, but nothing that upset me too much. My major argument with the movie is some severe miscasting on the part of Jedidiah Shultz(played in the film by someone much older than the written character and a little too neurotic for me) and, of course, the mistake of casting Joshua Jackson as any other character outside his Pacey-esque, mediocre abilities.
The Laramie Project is an incredibly sculpted piece of dramatic literature that is truly at it's most effective when on stage. I highly recommend any person who has seen the movie, to find a staged version of it and go see it NOW! Then you will see the true magnitude of this piece of art. Each monologue is artistically and beautifully intertwined with the next to open your eyes to world of this enriching and captivating story of a town and it's defenses and reactions to the severe beating of a gay college student. I think the film was very well done, considering the cut a lot of the already incredibly sculpted dialogue. I did enjoy that Moises Kaufman, the writer, directed it so that he did what needed to be done: Tell the story. What I LOVE about the play, and not so much the movie, is that it shows the story from equal view points and doesn't give you a biased view. It's easy for us as a society to blam the town of Laramie and call it a day. But with The Laramie Project you can sympathize and sometimes agree with a lot the people of Laramie...instead of immediately attacking them as redneck bigots like the media warped our minds to think. You see all of the angles of the story, and they are each given an equal chance to speak there minds and opinions. Some, you are still going to hate, but there is a truth and realness to it.
I really recomend those who have not yet read the play read it...but most importantly, if you see The Laramie Project being put on anywhere near you, go west young man and see it. I promise you...your life will be changed.