A Nightmare On Elm Street is the movie that started the seven part saga starring the undead madman known as Freddy Krueger, played by Robert Englund in all of them. The destruction has recently continued in 2003's Freddy Vs. Jason. It may be far from over, as rumors of a sequel have been speculated. Freddy is an icon of horror and has been scaring people for twenty-five years.

 Wes Craven directed and wrote A Nightmare On Elm Street, as well as the seventh installment, New Nightmare and co-wrote part three, Dream Warriors. He is also responsible for some other great movies. His older works include The Hills Have Eyes and Swamp Thing and his newer films include the Scream trilogy and Dracula 2000.

 People are intrigued by nightmares because so little is known about them. For Craven to come up with such an creative concept for a movie was truly ingenious of him and he deserves a lot of credit. It also helps that it was executed so well.

 The movie opens with a man constructing a special glove with knives attached to the fingertips for about forty-five seconds. We are then taken inside the nightmare of Tina (Amanda Wyss), which takes place in a dark boiler room. Freddy sneaks up on her and is just about to strike, but she abruptly wakes up. Her mother (Donna Woodrum) heard her scream and checks up on her. She notices four slash marks on her nightgown, but doesn't think too much of it. Tina goes back to sleep with her crucifix in hand.

 The next day at school, Tina tells her friend Nancy (Heather Langenkamp) about her dream. Nancy says that she dreamt of the same man with "finger knives". After having sex with her, Tina's friend Rod (Nick Corri) confesses that he had a similar nightmare. Tina has another dream involving Freddy during her post-sex sleep. This time, she isn't so lucky. She is brutally killed and Rod witnesses it all. Because he was the only one in the room, everyone blames it on Rod and he goes to jail for it. Nancy knows he's innocent but no one will believe her.

 The plot is basically set up right there in the beginning of the movie, except for one thing -- why is Freed trying to kill these poor high school kids? The answer is explained later on in the movie. I won't give it away in case you haven't seen it. On that note, go see the movie!

 The acting isn't too great, but it rarely is in older slasher movies. The killings, however, make up for the poor acting, even though it only has four kills. But then again, Michael Myers only killed five people (and two dogs) in the original Halloween and that is a classic. Freddy stalks his prey and toys with them before doing them in, rather than just going on a murderous rampage like some killers do. He finds out your fears and uses them against you in a terrifying way.

 The effects are good, especially for 1984. Just see the scene where blood shoots out of the bed after Glen (Johnny Depp, in his first big role) is murdered. It's been said that in this scene, which is a favorite of mine, over five hundred gallons of fake blood was used.

 The movie comes to a close when Nancy realizes that she must bring Freddy to the real world to kill him. The end of the movie is done well and is kind of unexpected. So what happens? See the movie and you'll find out.

 It's very impressive for a low-buget film and grossed $25.5 million dollars in the United States alone. This is the best movie in the series, far superior to the sequels, and probably one of my favorite horror movies. I recommend it to both old and new fans of the genre. Older fans can enjoy it as the classic that it is. Newer fans should respect it because it helped make horror movies what they are today and inspired many modern slashers. One thing's for sure, you will be scared to sleep. If you don't wake up screaming, you won't wake up at all.