As others have pointed out, at about the 88 minute point on Criterion's edition, when Ruth's fury is so intense she literally sees red and the screen is doused in scarlet, what should then be the punctuating fade to black in fact goes to a freeze of bright blue. One reviewer has suggested that this is likely because the black reads as 'no signal', but then again, Powell & Pressburger use the fade-to-black throughout the picture as a sort of cinematic swoon, as if the camera itself is fainting dead away as the lush fever-dream overtakes the protagonists - so why at this key point are  we suddenly jolted by blue ? It breaks into the carefully built mood of the movie, like a slap around the face in the middle of an intense tone poem. I wonder if this is the point where the transition on the dual-layer disc was placed? The blame really must lie with Criterion - at these prices they should be offering better technical quality control. And my other beef is that the dubious "essay" accompanying this edition, by David Kehr, states that Sister Clodagh is from Scotland ... then refers to "Scottish" flashbacks - but she's Irish (Clodagh,the name itself, is pretty much a giveaway, even without paying attention to the dialogue). Her memories are of Ireland, a location that has suffered a  great deal through the centuries as a sort of Ground Zero of British (and please note BRITISH, not English) imperial aspirations, and thus another subtle resonance of which Powell was surely well aware (and regarding the Irish religio-political conflict, other viewers have not missed the error on the DVD box synopsis; the nuns are not "Protestant" as stated, and it's not clear why whoever compiles these synopses thinks they are). What is it with Criterion's 3rd rate "academics" and their commentaries and essays - on Powell's 'Peeping Tom', "renowned film theorist" (oh dear) Laura Mulvey thinks that Dr Jekyll & Mr Hyde was written by someone called "John Louis Stevenson". Who, at Criterion, is approving this under-educated nonsense lurking in the self-important guise of "film theory"?