Well. I have to say I am shock. Not really because of the content. It was very well done, and it does leave you with a sense of dread of the hysterical- especially if you understand it as a  writer. It is very graphic and grisly in ways, but at turns dark and delicate at the same time- in a similiar vein to De Sade's own writings. Of course it doesn't come close to the marvel that his writings were- or the perversness, but touches on it. The horror is in the remarkable scenes that are played out- in layer upon layer that gets heavier and heavier. It is like the dark tapestries of the walls in France themselves. 
Very well done. The photography is sumptuous, dark, and enthralling, and no detail is left undone. The Marquis himself does not enter the film immediately but begins the voice over, which I thought was a nice touch.  
Yyou will love Geoffery Rush's performance. It was brilliant. All the actor's were great, and Joaquin Phoenix once again holds his own, and at very times almost steals things from under everyone's nose.  
Other reviews have ripped this movie apart, and so they should. But perhaps what they don't get- and they don't like- which I encounter often, and find rather amusing- is the hypocrisy of society and hypocrisy played out as a "virtue"- which it most often is- IS the very undercurrent that destroys works of ART- real works of art- and destroys the foundations in which socitey places all other virtues- that are in fact the real ones- and doesn't delinate a place for vices that are pure and cannot be stemmed by others. It is a film that gives voice to the individualists, and says; yes, you can hold your vices intact but beware how you use them, and what you do with them. It conveys morality as something which should be held in high regard, but not used to condemn others. The same should be said of immorality- depending on the way it is seen. 
I have to say I identified mostly as a writer- with the blood as ink symbolism, and thought it was well done. There are some liberties taken, but since it will never really be known what went on in the asylum "as fact" when De Sade was there- due to the overwhelming prejudice against De Sade, and the fact he was seen more as a monster than anything else. In the end it is a movie worth seeing. If you are looking for mere "curiosity" you won't get it here. There are monsters, and there are angels and at times, the lines are well blurred. I fail to see why the critics condemn movies liek this- as I think they are as needed- even more so- than the drivel  that hollywood continually passes off as entertainment. There was more horror in 5 minutes of this film that in the entire "Blair Witch Project" a film I detest, and think is nothing but a video taken by someone who had too much beer in the woods one night.
As for Quills, I am hoping it will stand the test of time. I think it's very valid, and while not a historical piece on De Sade, it is a comment on all the things we "think" are virtuous, that could easily turn on a dime, and consume us with fire, on any given day. 
There is a point in the film where De Sade's wife says;  "Let me tell you the one true act of horror that he has done...in the folly of youth, he made me love him..." 
This sums it up pretty well, and for me- hit home more than I would like to admit.  I think the horror of life is not always living it, it's just trying to get past the facades- and hypocrisy that passes for honor.