I am not that into old Western movies. I never did like them, because i am not American and they seem very boring to me. I, myself like action movies and horrur a lot. The things that are interesting to me in this movie are the revolvers and how fast they take them and and shoot. Another thing that is pretty good are the scenes that make me go "wow". What i dont like is this movie or any western movie is that when one guy takes out like six guy's at the same time. That makes the movie very unrealistic. However some people like that in movies, because, the good guy wins; i am not into that. I mean, the bad guys should win once in a while. A typical Western movie should have cowboy's, "of course" and revolvers "definitely". The thing that makes this movie diferent that other western movies is that it is less real than other western movies that i have seen, so far. I like the quote'sin western movies, because, they mean so much and even make the movie much better. "I maintain the peace" and " It could of been such a good deal for us" are some examples ofquote's in this movie. The best thing about this movie, I have to say that it is the soundtrack. When ever dool's happen or something exiting happens and the music comes, it make people really feel the movie.The soundtrack in the movie is very loud, so you could kind of tell what is going to happen next. Another thing i liked about this movie is that the shot's they took in western places. Shot's make the movie freeze for a second and makes you think about what beatiful area's they took place in the movie. That just makes the movie improve more to me. I like the way that the people dressed like back then. Their clothing were very cool. But, i don't like the way that they talk. It is very annoying to me. Their accent is very wierd, because, they are so polite. Polite is very good. i am more of a slang talk kind of guy so maybe that is it. If i would rate this movie i would of gaven it a 55 out of a 100. The reason for that is, because, i would give it more on the positive side just because of the dool's; i like that. My advice to you is, if you have not seen this movie yet, check it out, maybe you will like it and  maybe you will hate it or even be like me and give it an "ok".
  THE  END