For A Few Dollars More was the first Spaghetti Western I saw and has since, pulled me into the world of the Italian gunslingers and having owned up to numerous Spaghetti Western titles. The saying goes, that the first spaghetti western you watch would stick into your mind for a long time. FAFDM was the first of Leone's film that has his trademark sequences all over it - The extremly wide (and close) cinematography shots, the stylish character introductions, the musical score that broke the silence between overlong duels, and the ingenious shootout sequences. This is the reason why personally I find FAFDM the better of the Dollars Trilogy. From the opening title sequence where there is a short phrase that introduces the "bounty hunters", this film grabs the viewers attention. I particularly liked FAFDM because of the strong establishment and introduction of characters. As in all of Leone's works, you can't help but love the characters here - the dark vigilante Colonel Mortimer (Lee Van Cleef), the very cool and laid back gunman Manco (Clint Eastwood), and a sadistic mexican killer named El Indio (Gian Maria Volonte). Although not mentioned, the story seems to take off nicely from A Fistful of Dollars - two bounty hunters, one with a scarred past and out for revenge, and the other in search of a large amount of gold coins, cross paths at the town of El Paso. After a brilliant choreographed sequence (the shooting of hats), the two form an alliance to take down an outlaw (El Indio) who has just escaped from prison. Around this simple and effective storyline, is the world that Leone has created to make this movie a marvel to watch. Now aside from Manco, Van Cleef and Volonte have set brilliant performances that equally steal the lime light from Eastwood. I prefer Van Cleef in his role of Colonel Mortimer than Angel Eyes (as in The Good, The Bad & The Ugly), though it really shows the capacity of this guy's acting skills. A lot of people would say that Mortimer is "the" character to look out for in this feature, but to me, no other "bad guy" could be as bad as "El Indio". Volonte did a brilliant performance of "Ramone" in A Fistful of Dollars, and he steps it up at least 10 notches in FAFDM. His character "El Indio" is so bad, that you have to love him. My most favourite scene would be at the time when his comrades break him out of prison. The camera falls down and zooms in while hes lying down with a sombrero covering his face. At the removal of the sombrero, the camera zooms in to his eyes, all assisted by a magnificent Morricone score! If you think action movies are Tarantino, Rodriguez, and John Woo, you really need to watch FAFDM and see what started it all.