This movie seems to get alot of flak from Kong enthusiasts. Why? Do these people not appreciate the huge tasks that the film makers faced?  First off, they were remaking a classic. That in itself turns people off, generally. So anybody that remakes a classic, be it Kong, Psycho, or Planet of the Apes, already has a strike against them. But ask yourself: If you were going to remake King Kong in 1976, how would you have done it?

Stop-motion just would not have flown at that time. Arguably, audiences had become a little more sophisticated than in 1933.

Movies like 2001, Jaws, and The Exorcist proved that audiences were ready for bigger and better special effects than say the sci-fi movies of the 50's.

  The giant robot Kong that was used saw very little screen time, but how would anybody make a 50 foot robot that could "act"?

  There was no CGI to speak of in 1976, so what's the next best thing? A man in a monkey suit. Period. At the time, this was about the best way to pull it all off. I know alot of people complain about the suit. But come on! It still is one pretty amazing feat that Rick Baker accomplished. I was amazed at the articulation in the face. I just thought this new Kong looked more realistic and less comical (definately less wide-eyed) that the original. Rick Baker has my total respect, as does Carlo Rambaldi (the designer of the robot).

  Some people believe that these two films should not even be compared. Mostly because the 1933 version is a classic and the 1976 (arguably) is not. However; certain aspects have to be copared for a proper review.

  The 1933 version is a classic, to be sure. I loved staying up late when I was young so that I could see it on late night t.v. So, when the 1976 version was announced, I was totally psyched!  Having only seen the 1933 version, and a few of those cheesy Japanese ones from the 60's, this was an opportunity that I would not let pass me by.

  So, there I was; 12 years old and as excited as if it were Christmas morning. I was totally conviced at what I was seeing.

  I loved the huge kong hand (of which I had read an article about - and how it had been composed of leather and horse hair and such). I thought it looked more realistic (and bigger) than the kong hand of 1933.

  The idea of changing the crew of the ship (now the Petrox) from a film crew to oil seekers was brilliant, I thought. Afterall, America was in the midst of a nation energy crises.

  Jessica Lang (because of her role in Kong) was totally hot, and became one of my first boyhood crushes. I didn't see the relevance of changing her name to 'Dwan', but what the hey.I also loved the way she interacted with Kong. She fears Kong, pleads with him, gets angry with him and even appreciates that he saves her life (from the giant snake), and eventually feels sorry for him; showing genuine emotion at his death. All Ann (from the 1933) version does is: scream. Even as a child, I sometimes tired of her constant screaming.

  I liked the way the character of Wilson (the alter ego of Carl Denim) was changed to the true villian of the film. I always loved Kong in the past and saw him not as a villian, but a victim.

  John Barry's score was/is pure genius. And is still one of my favorite movie scores. Now that I'm older and can be more critical, concerning special-effects, plot, script writing, acting, etc... the musical score is the one thing that I believe is truly better than the original. Instantly recognizable; both romantic and ominous, the music worked!  I honestly can not recall (at present) what the soundtrack from the 1933 version sounds like, exactly.

  Kongs' roar from 1933 sounded just like a lion or tiger(just extended at times) The '76 Kong had a rich, deep tone that had much greater range and 'emotion'. Even though it wounds like it may have been borrowed from the old black-n-white Lost World film, it still sounds better. In fact, in giant monster lore, only Godzilla has a more memorable roar.

  Although I loved all the dinosaurs and huge prehistoric type wildlife in the first movie, I could do without them all, because of the overall scope, music, color and make-up of the latter.  In closing, I can honestly say loved the film. It evoked emotions and feelings that I never felt from the original.

  I even liked the fact that Kong's demise would now be at the foot of the World Trade Center towers as opposed to the Empire State Building. Why not? The WTC was now bigger, newer and not too far from being in recent new because of it's contruction completion.

  Again, now that I'm older and more critical, I can't say that the '76 Kong was made better or is a better film than the '33 version. But I sure did enjoy it more. The '76 Kong had a better musical score, a hotter girl, was beautifully filmed, had more humor, better makeup effects and was even well acted. It never takes itself too seriously and pokes a little fun at the then current social issues (sexual equality and energy problems). And for all the put-downs that the so-called Kong purists give the '76 version, they can't deny that good or bad, it was a BIG deal back at that time. Kong mania swept the land, as he was on every magazine cover. There were commercials on the radio and t.v. everytime you turned one on. It was also (although not critically acclaimed), was one of the top box office draws of the year. Check the records.

  Even after all these years, I still get a kick out of watching it with my son. It will always hold a special place in my movie going heart and I'm GLAD it was made.