Peaceful Warrior, a movie, is based on the true story Way of the Peaceful Warrior by Dan Millman. The movie focuses on Dan and his gymnastics career at the University of California at Berkley. He is a collegiate gymnast who suffers a tragic accident that should prevent him from ever competing in gymnastics and possibly the simplest of life tasks like walking. During his time at Berkley, he meets a man whom he calls Socrates. Socrates provides Dan a new way to look at life. Through the teachings of Socrates, Dan learns to become a warrior.

Peaceful Warrior is directed by Victor Salva, and stars Scott Mechlowicz as Dan Millman and Nick Nolte as Socrates. The movie premiered in three locations in 2006, Los Angeles, California, New York, New York, and Chicago, Illinois. It became available on DVD March 30, 2007.

The beginning of the movie, about the first five minutes, is very closely related to the novel. The relationship between Dan and Socrates made Dan more aware of himself. Dan learned how to enjoy each day individually and become a better person. He learned he cannot totally control his own future. He learned that happiness isn't in having a different woman in his bed every night or having hundreds of trophies and being an excellent student; rather, happiness is about living and enjoying life each day and realizing that life is a process of attaining ones goals or dreams.

There were many negatives about the Peaceful Warrior. The main point of the book was not the focus of the movie, although it had a major impact. The book focuses on the changes Dan makes in his life and how he applies the techniques to his gymnastics training. The movie focuses on the gymnastics aspect of the story. The events happen out of order in the movie, so it does not follow the chronological outline the book provides. Important conversations and teachings with Socrates were left out, which explains Dan's healing process. Socrates is the main reason for Dan healing, and by not understanding this, the movie is not understood. The viewer of the movie does not understand all of the depth and insight Socrates instills in Dan, and that is unfortunate. The movie does not focus on the importance of Socrates and his effects on Dan. There were scenes in the movie that never occurred in the book.

After having read the book, I was so excited to watch the movie. While taking notes so I could remember what I wanted to talk about, I have never been so angry with a movie, ever. Half of the book was left out and the parts that were left out were very significant to the storyline and Dan's life. It is never mentioned that he has a divorce while Socrates sends him away for nine years.

This movie is recommended to teenagers and older due to sexual references and alcohol usage. Other movies similar to the Peaceful Warrior are Stick It or any of the Rocky movies.