In comparing Shaft 2000 with the original Shaft movie, I would have to say that the original is better. Shaft 2000's storyline is pointless and to me, Samuel L. Jackson is out of control. The characters appear to be cardboard cutouts as props and Richard Roundtree is severely underused. The original Shaft is in a class all by itself. It captures the flavor of New York City in the early 70's. Richard Roundtree never goes out of control as Samuel L. Jackson does. He does not have to remind people that he is a "bad mutha:. His presence says it all.  People don't realize that the original Shaft movie was shot on a low budget (notice that Shaft didn't have a car until Shafts Big Score?). People complain about the shortness of the film but it didn't have a big budget to start with. MGM was cautious with the budget which makes this film all the more important. It shouldn't even be dubbed "blaxploitation". John Shaft didn't take mess from Whites, Blacks, the Mob or the NYPD. He, at times was a tough hombre (smashing through the window to rescue the girl) sensitive (giving a kid that was hungry two bucks to eat), defiant (scolding Ben on the value of friendship "Don't call me Judas!") and he didn't take crap (from Bumby or the cops). All during this, he kept his cool.
Isaac Hayes soundtrack is a classic and it is what soundtracks sounded like before sound producers for films came up with the brilliant idea of letting artists use outtakes from their other albums as filler for a soundtrack album. The original Shaft soundtrack is a mixture of jazz, blues and funk (The only abberration being "Do Your Thing" which is psychodelic funk that is way too long). The Shaft 2000 soundtrack is awful. Even the remake of Theme From Shaft sounds empty (Ever notice that the horn lines in the remake sound tired?)
If you really want to get a feel for the character of Shaft, buy this movie. It'll make you want to put on your leather coat and stroll down Times Square. Shaft 2000 cannot match the original offering.