After watching this movie, I knew my daughter had to see it.  This movie is about true love - but there are a lot of movies about true love.  This movie is about young love - but there are a lot of movies like that too.  Somehow though, this movie shines in the portrayal of the characters by the teen actors who do a wonderful job of bringing Nicholas Sparks' hero and heroine to life.  For once, I saw the movie before I read the book.  I knew I had to read the book after watching the movie though, because rarely does a movie make me sit there sobbing with a box of tissues.  The book and movie are very different from one another though, for example, in the book, the setting is in the 1950's but the movie is current.  But the overall storyline is the same and the emotions they evoke are also the same.  I even went so far as to look up a script of the movie, and that is also very different from either the book or the movie.  So there are really three versions of this story out there but all of them have the same theme.

My 14 year old daughter loved this movie so much, I had to buy it immediately from Amazon (she saw it online via a movie website).  I wanted her to see it because it is a teen love story that does not include sex.  Landon (played by Shane West) and Jamie (played by Mandy Moore) are thrown together through a series of circumstances that allows them to realize there is more to a person than what they see on the outside.  Jamie is plain, the daughter of the reverend at Landon's church.  She dresses almost nun-like and always carries her bible wherever she goes.  Landon hangs with the popular crowd and they don't hesitate to show their disdain for Jamie at every opportunity.  Even though Jamie tells Landon "you must promise not to fall in love with me" as a condition when he asks her for help, somehow he finds himself doing exactly that.  Suddenly he sees himself and his so-called friends through her eyes and realizes Jamie is not the one that should have a big L painted on her forehead, they are.  There is another twist in the story though, and Landon shows that he is truly a changed person.  She is touched by his attempts to help her accomplish her "life list", while through her love, she helps him mend his life - his relationship with his father, his future, and even his friends.

This movie should be watched for the story.  There are several small editing mistakes you might catch if you watch it as often as I have.  It is not a masterpiece of cinematography or special effects.  It DOES have a great soundtrack though, with songs by Mandy Moore, as well as Switchfoot and others.  Her solo in the school play "Only Hope" is a sweet song which you understand the lyrics to only after you finish watching the movie.

Now go watch the movie, but grab a box of tissues first, you'll need it!