The Secret of NIMH is an astonishingly beautiful, thoughtful, and touching story about the unbreakable bond between a mother and her children. Forget for a moment that it's about mice and rats; the premise of this movie is so human, which is why it hits so close to home and turns me into a leaky faucet every time I watch it. No animated movie even comes close to affecting me the same way that Don Bluth's masterpiece does.

Whereas most animated films made in the last 20 years deal with exaggerated personalities, tired comic relief and unbelievable plots, NIMH concerns itself with far more realistic characters and situations that viewers can easily relate to. Mrs. Brisby is a single mother, recently widowed, with a simple home and a loving, if not challenging family - a toddler, two bickering older children, and a sickly, bedridden child. In the greater scheme of things, she considers herself just another mouse on the farm, and not particularly special or important. Her humbleness is partly why this story is so amazing. She never complains about her plight in life, never takes any credit for her actions and never gives any other character attitude. And while she is exceptionally fearful of the violent and unpredictable world outside of her comfortable home, she is determined enough to save her family that she braves certain death by visiting the Great Owl and drugging the farmer's cat Dragon with tranquilizer. Her courage impresses the intelligent rats of NIMH and, combined with her deceased husband's legacy, they are moved to help her save her family from imminent doom. I am similarly moved watching this mother tirelessly fight to save her kids. What other animated movie has an even remotely similar plot? None that I can think of - and it's precisely this human situation that makes The Secret of NIMH stand above its animated counterparts.

"Courage of the heart is very rare, the stone has a power when it's there." This simple rhyme is really the epitome of what the movie is all about: that love will get you through any adversity. This movie - and its message - is meant for adults just as much as children, and will remain one of the great classic animated stories of all time.