Most comedies make one suspend one's beliefs and provides cheap laughs which end up like cheap highs--they lose their effect and soon bore over time. Not so with Observe and Report.

Observe and Report (OAR) is a revelation! And an affirmation that Jody Hill (along with his Fist Foot Way and Eastbound and Down) is forging a new movement in comedy by providing unmasked realism! This movie takes realistic "everyday" people and situations to their true ends where no typical Hollywood comedy or movie would go. It provides realism connoisseurs with immense levels of joy and satisfaction.

OAR centers around Ronnie, a protagonist with all his imperfections as well as his strengths. He is loud and strong, takes his ridiculed job very seriously, he speaks his mind all the time, and he takes care of his friends and family. As such, he earns the respect of his co-security guards and a fellow mall food court worker. He may not be super likeable by movie viewers who only look at hotshot Hollywood hunks, due to his chunky looks, racial prejudices, and his violent acts when off his meds but he does the best he can as product of a single drunk mother, holding a steady, unflattering job, all while being bi-polar.

Ronnie's life starts out small but complete as head of security in a typical shopping mall along with a band of interesting security guards. He takes care of his loving but hard drinking mom. He has a unforgetable right hand man, Dennis, who is 100% hilarious as he is criminal. Dennis's scenes are pure magic! His initial love interest is a blond cosmetic counter "party girl" (played by Anna Faris) who he eventually sees as not his type of girl. :) Over the course of what seems like a few days, he nearly loses his life to a vengeful detective, he goes off his meds, he loses his meaning in life, goes on a mini violence spree, sees his life in ruins, holds true to his character and his convictions, and finally regains his small life back again along with a girlfriend Nell (who is undeniably sweet and has heart wrenching scene).

OAR is a great character movie because it is oh so real. There is no need to go to a fantasy world for 90 minutes and rebound back to reality. This movie is reality!
Every character is real (as in people you see in real life). The plot plays out naturally as it should with the characters involved. Of course this means this movie is not for sheltered Hollywood addicted fans who are looking beautiful people and escapist sugary silly storylines. But hey, that's their problem. In fact, these sugary movie addicts should ask themselves why they need to so desperately escape reality? Perhaps they need Dennis Chevante to show them the way. :)

Those who are unafraid of reality and life will agree that Observe and Report is pure delight. I look forward to more wonderful character movies from Jody Hill. I also hope that he continues to use more unknown actors which makes his movies even more authentically realistic.