One of my favorite movies of all times, I've probably seen it over 100 times since 1973 and I never tire of it.  My dad introduced me to this film, and told me that I had to pay very careful attention to it [because of the overlapping flashbacks via which the robbery sequence is told].  I was puzzled at first, but caught on quickly enough, and even at the age of 16 I knew i was watching something special which would withstand the test of time.

It is amazing that 40 years later Quentin Tarantino would be praised, as if he was the second coming of Orson Welles, for employing a similar non-linear narrative in "Pulp Fiction."  The latter is bigger, more contemporary, but compared to "The Killing" it's clear how shallow and how empty PF really is, just a triumph of glitzy style over substance.

"The Kiling" has it's faults, especially the penultimate scene when the robbers are in turn  [almost] robbed by Vince Edwards and Joe Turkel, and Elisha Cooke Jr., the victim of cuckolding at the hands of Edwards, touchs off a shootout which ends ina bloodbath.  The final scene at the airpiort with the stupid little dog is unforgettable, but likewise unconvincing.  After executing an elaborate robbery [actually, it's a fairly simple robbery, it's the non-linear narrative which makes it seem much more complex than it really is], Sterling Hayden is caught because he stuffs the cash into an ultra-shoddy second-hand valise?  Why not have bought a new one? Or left the cash in the duffel bag and just shoved that duffel bag into the valise?  Or bought some electricians' tape or plumbers' tape and securely sealed the valise?  Yeah, we know, than the film could not have ended as the downer that it did.

A must see for all fans of B movies, crime drama, film noir [thought it's not strictly speaking of that genre] and the works of Kubrick.  An excellent investment of just under 90 minutes of your time.

The DVD release is a relative disappointment. A movie which cries out forextensive  Special Features, in particular feature commentary by any noted film critic or film historian [in particular guys like Alain Silver or James Ursini or Eddie Meuller who have done so many commentary tracks for the Fox film noir release] has none.  That's a real shame.  Perhaps it will be rectified in future versions of this DVD reelase.  I for one hope so.