Originally "Platinum Blond" was named "Gallagher" after the character played by Loretta Young, who also had top billing.  But when the studio realized they had a mega star in Harlow, Young was demoted, only by title not billing.  At the time Young was a bigger star than Harlow.  From all reports Young and Harlow got along famously, no diva quarrels on set, for both were down-to-earth actors.  Harlow is definitely sexy in the movie, but she is terribly miscast and her acting leaves much to be desired.  Young is quite good as Gallagher; her acting was always unappreciated for her luminous beauty always seemed to get in the way.  No about it, the true beauty in this film is Young.  In every frame she's in, she steals the scene, not because of her acting, but she intuitively knows the power of her beauty.  Just watch her, there's a stillness about her that is remarkable, a kind of minimalist acting that is astounding in that you eye naturally goes to her.  It's sad that Harlow died only two years after making this film.  Young, however, went on to have a glorious, legendary Hollywood career, culminating in her winning the Academy Award for her role in "The Farmer's Daughter."  She later had the courage to take on TV, and there was no bigger star on TV, except for Lucille Ball.  Who can ever forget Young swirling through the door every week in a designer gown by Jean Louis, her future husband, by the way. I'm glad to see that because of the new book, "The Star Machine," Young's career is now being reevaluated.  She indeed made some fine films.  And she is a better actress than critics have give her credit for.  As for her beauty:  she is one of the most beautiful women to grace the silver screen.  The camera loved her face.  The photographer Hurrell captured her beauty in many portraits, but the one I favor is the cover of "The Star Machine":  she and Tyrone Power together.  Classic Hollywood photography.  It's Capra's first film, and it's a very good one.  For Young and Harlow fans it's a must see.