I didn't know much about this one before going into it. I never saw the trailers, read the plot summary or even heard anything about it - the cover looked cool though! After I saw it pop up on sale, I took a peak at the reviews and saw that it did pretty well (generally high numbers) and I decided to give it a shot.

I'm not too big a fan of traditional ninja movies. I prefer the more modern-day, action-packed hollywood movies where you just don't have to think, just sit back and let all sorts of ridiculous stuff happen for 2 hours and then forget all about it, and that's pretty much what this was. If you're looking for a story, you're better off skipping this one. If you're looking for some over the top slicing and dicing that will just make  you laugh because of how crazy, over the top ridiculous and unbelievable (not in a bad way) it is, this is your movie. It's sort of like the Crank or Kill Bill of Ninja movies. That alone should either make you want to order it right away or just completely pass on it.

I'm never good at going into the plots of movies (especially odd ones like this), so I'll skip that here - many of the other reviews (or the Amazon description) will cover that part. I'll just go into the details of the Blu Ray.

The movie itself, I give a 3.5: It's short & sweet, action packed and a fun movie to spend an hour and a half. What keeps it from getting a higher score is the whole investigation sub-story - I found it a bit boring and felt it took away from what could have otherwise been a very good action movie. Still enjoyable, but would've been a bit nicer without that whole part.

Video was very good a nice treat on Blu-Ray (blacks were solid, colors were vibrant and I didn't notice any technical issues.

Audio was also very good - a nice DTSHD 5.1 Master Audio track with lots of bang to it. It'll give your home theater a nice workout!

Extras were decent with about an hour worth of documentaries, extra footage behind the scenes (some better than others). Fortunately all appeared to be in HD. My favorite though were the addition of a DVD and Digital Copy (same disc) - this is great for taking to a friends house (DVD) or copying to your iPhone, iPod Touch or iPad (digital copy).

Awesome audio, great video and a fun movie make this a recommendation from me! Not perfect, not for everyone, but if you just want to spend an hour and a half watching some over the top ninja action, this is what you want to pick up!