Greetings. A year ago I wrote a review about this film in which I condemned it. I was wrong. The fact of the matter is that this film is a masterpiece. This film draws you in and makes you sympathize with Carrie. She is treated as an outcast and subjected to unspeakable acts of hatred by her peers. When I watched the film, I lost all sense of objectivity so much so that when she was humiliated at the prom I became angry with the movie itself. I forgot that the ability of a movie to draw the audience in, to make it sympathize with the characters, is the mark of a great horror movie. That is why some of the Universal monsters from the 30's and 40's, Frankenstein and the Wolf Man, are considered classics. You feel remorse for these characters because they are outcasts, forever cursed, and unable to controll their violent natures. And so it is with Carrie White: a shy, angry victim of horrible abuse who eventually gets pushed too far. I apologize to the filmmakers for my earlier ignorance.

Moreover, this film is more important now than ever before. We all remember those terrible killings at Columbine High School. To anyone who wonders why such a thing could happen, I suggest you watch this movie. We'll never know for certain what prompted those kids to storm into that school with guns and kill with no remorse and no mercy. But "Carrie" presents us with some possible answers. I think that underneath all of the horror in this film there is a positive message: we need to treat one another with love and dignity. I am an avid "Star Trek" fan. I believe that we can bring about that kind of productive, positive future--if we learn the lessons from "Carrie".

P.S.

  Dear Ms. Spacek,

  I once read somewhere that you were not very proud of your role in this film. You should feel very proud!! It took a great deal of courage for you to accept this role, in my opinion. Violence in our schools is a horrible problem. Your film brings that problem out into the limelight. That is the first critical step in solving a problem: exposing it. I think that it should be required viewing for all high school students. By talking about it with their teachers and parents, maybe we wouldn't have anymore Columbines. You're a terrific actress as are all of the other actors and actresses in the film.

  Sincerely,

  Steven M. Cohen