First let me start by saying I loved Smallville. I watched my first episode in 2007 and quickly caught up with the previous episodes and currently own seasons 1-9. I loved that the writers tried to be as balanced and fair as possible. I also loved the energy of the show!

I missed the first two episodes, but made sure to catch Homecoming. I couldn't believe the direction the show was talking with its not-so subtle jabs at "embracing illegal immigrants"  I was surprised, because the same sort of comment had been made in the previous episode too. Wasn't it Lois who said in season six, "does breaking and entering not mean anything to rich people?" But the message seemed to be that it's okay to enter another country as long as it's done by a someone living in poverty- then you don't need to follow the rules. I didn't like the overall disrespect that the military was given in this season. They were portrayed as villains' and I expected more balance.

I also expected a stronger story. I think the thing writers and producers of comics need to remember is that in fantasy/sci-fi a hero is only as credible as the villain. Replacing strong villains' like Doomsday, Zod, and Lex with a boorish, contrived and ghost-like character that preys on people like some evil little devil sitting on their shoulder is childish and insulting to the viewer.  There were also a few sloppy episodes that made me cringe. A bachelor party themed episode where they wake up and don't know what happened? It was so hard to watch them act drunk, and what was worse was the lines seemed like they were being made up as the actors went along.

Again, I would just urge people to think twice before purchasing this season. I'm glad I saw the epiodes I did, because I will not be buying this propaganda soap box season and the political bru ha ha that took away from the really genuine and beautiful relationship that Lois and Clark were finally able to have.

I would also love to see how that relationship ended, but the constant insinuation that only a corrupt individual would ask people to enter a country legally was just too much. My Grandmother came to this country legally at time when her country was at war and everyone was starving, yet she still managed to enter the US by abiding all laws. To suggest that its' okay to just enter a country, because "they only want the opportunities that you and your family have" (As Oliver's lines stated) is a slap in the face to all those who respected the laws of their future country.