Craig Schwartz (played by actor John Cusack) has a problem: he doesn't like being Craig Schwartz.  This identity crisis is identified (pun  intended) immediately within the beautiful establishing shot(s) of director  Spike Jonze's fantastic -- if not highly bizarre -- film "Being John  Malkovich."  In the aforementioned shot(s) we see a puppet show taking  place -- a solitary performance, which is orchestrated and conducted by  Schwartz, with no audience in attendance and (presumably) with no other  purpose than providing him with a mode of escape: from himself, from his  life... from reality.  "The grass is always greener on the other side of  the fence" proves to be the running theme (or should I say  "belief?") for all the characters in the movie (including  Schwartz), each seeking a new and improved existence -- specifically via a  magical portal that allows them to enter the mind of acclaimed American  actor John Malkovich.  But once the transition is made, and each character  has a chance to "be" somebody else-to experience the hoped -- for  improved emerald splendor of another's grass -- Spike Jonze throws a wicked  curveball at the audience, asking the question "Is it really greener  elsewhere?"
For me, this ingenious film worked on many levels.  Firstly, the technical aspects, from lighting to camera angles, and  everything in between, were handled and produced in a very controlled and  (I think) appropriate fashion for the message being conveyed.  An example  of this can be found in the choices of lighting for the scenes involving  Schwartz.  He's a man who has grown despondent with his life, so Jonze  chooses to light him in a gloomy, almost haze-like manner, conveying a  sense of doom and depression, as well as depicting a gloomy and futile  attempt by Schwartz to struggle through the suffocating miasma that  surrounds him every day.  It is not until we see Schwartz manipulating his  puppets, or until he enters the mind of Malkovich (essentially, in both  cases, "becoming" someone or something else), that we see a  brighter, more illuminating style of lighting used, which seems to indicate  Schwartz only feels alive and free when he is able to escape from himself.  This clever handling of the lighting shows the audience -- with or without  the assistance of related dialogue -- what kind of life Schwartz lives, and  gives definite clues to his personality and his motivation (or lack  thereof).
On the emotional and psychological levels, I found "Being  John Malkovich" to be extremely satisfying.  Not only was the  quirkiness of its subject matter both challenging and refreshing (I mean, a  magic portal into the mind of John Malkovich, for Pete's sake!), but the  underlying questions being asked, as well, made this a pleasurable viewing  experience.  I left the movie wondering about my own existence, and about  the times I -- like everyone else, I'm sure -- have considered what it  would be like to be someone else; to see the world through another's eyes.  The answer, I believe (and the movie provides this quite clearly), is that  a person can never really know what it's like be someone else without  completely becoming that other person.  And once you do, what's the point?  You've lost yourself and will never know the differences you are now  experiencing.  Spike Jonze meets Soren Keirkegaard: I like it!