The Movie:

Let me just state that although I am an adult, I absolutely loved this movie, and think that it would be perfect for everyone of all ages. Director Henry Selick of The Nightmare Before Christmas fame and the incredibly talented crew at LAIKA have painstakingly crafted a beautiful world using stop-motion animation. You have to see it to believe how life-like and expressive these characters are while still keeping the colorful fantasy like qualities of a fairytale animation.

I think one of the reasons why the movie works so well is that even despite the wonderful medium it's been created in, the central story is something that everyone can relate to. For adults, it's about remembering what it was like to be growing up and their relationship to their own parents. For kids, it's about exploration, suspense, and maturing through courage. Watching the movie several times through also compelled me to go out and buy the original book by Neil Gaiman. Interesting as well and definitely worth a look if you're interested as the tale is spun somewhat differently. For those that have complained that the movie may be too frightening for young children, why not ask them their opinion first before assuming that they will be scared. The movie was obviously made for children, included two in the cast, and intended to be scary and fun for their age. Plus, that is a central theme in the story: for children to learn to overcome their fears.

Thank goodness, the creators didn't sell out by shoving a whole bunch of huge actors making "hip" or "edgy" jokes. This one is true to it's own story, and you will fall in love with each of the characters. Now that said, I should definitely mention that the entire voicing cast did a truly superb job: Dakota Fanning, Teri Hatcher, John Hodgman (PC guy), Robert Bailey, Keith David, Jennifer Saunders, Carolyn Crawford, and finally Ian McShane who did the unforgetable- Mr. Bobinsky (said with a Russian accent). And the "acting" is really a two-part job as the stop-motion animators did a fantastic job in displaying the character's emotions and dialogue. You really do forget that your seeing only animated puppets and not living creatures.

The Collector's Edition Blu-Ray/DVD:

Outstanding buy! I highly encourage everyone (as I have with all my family and friends) to go pick this one up. The Collector's Edition is great and comes packed with very interesting behind-the-scenes and voicing sessions integrated into the Blu-Ray.

I bet a lot of people are probably wondering about the quality of the 3-D that is offered. The Collector's Edition comes with 6 green-magenta 3-D glasses. So obviously it will not be anywhere near as cool as what was presented in the theatres, but this should not deter you as this is the only way to display 3-D currently on TV's as the technology has to do with the projector not the data (there is talk that new 3-D TV's will be made for the future but this probably won't be available for several years to come).

Personally, I thought this was an outstanding bonus and I will shamefully admit that this was what made me interested in purchasing the Blu-ray (Something I have never done before- bought a movie before actually seeing it beforehand. Somehow, I never really knew or forgot about it when it was in theatres- too bad, missed my chance. Though I truly hope it will return to theatres for it's original 3-D as I'll definitely make it this time!).

Anyways, you should definitely watch the 2-D movie first with it's brilliant colors and subtle details. Then try it out a second time with the 3-D glasses- it's quite neat. Although most of the color is gone with this type of 3-D, some are still present which is actually used to accentuate certain things like Coraline's yellow rain coat! I should mention that some people have complained about getting headaches from using the glasses, but I actually got used to it. And it does work- pretty cool stuff. In fact, I hope this encourages other animated movies to include this feature. It's way too long to have to wait before 3-D TV's are released and even more before they become affordable!