I have lost my only son and only child, so with that said I can truly relate.  Some of the movie does not face true reality, but is very compelling.

When you truly love someone you give to them whatever they need, what ever they long for, while having selflessness, unselfishness, self-sacrifice, and altruism.  This is how we all love our children!

Today I saw a trailer of a movie called "Rabbit Hole!"
The film is starring Nicole Kidman, the mother, whose name is Becca and Aaron Eckhart whose name is Howie. It is about a Mom and Dad who lost their child, Danny.  The scene takes place at a grief support session in a dim lit area with folding chairs in a circle along with a group of grieving parents.  They kind of fidget and the room is silent.  One of the Fathers in this grief support group starts to speak of seeing his child in his dreams.  Another Father mentions that "God took her."  One of the mothers starts the conversation by saying, "God needed another Angel!"  Nicole Kidman, Becca interrupts her at that point while her husband Aaron Eckhart, Howie turns his head to listen.  She replies back to the women, "Why didn't God just make another Angel?"  "Well, he is God After all, "Why didn't he just make another Angel?" "Hmmm?"  Howie, the father,feels Becca is trying to ERASE their son.  I sincerely believe that my child will never just be erased.  I will not let that happen.  I think about my son constantly.  The pain is colder and darker than you can ever imagine!  I will never say good-bye to him.

I honestly truly do not understand why our children were the chosen ones and I never will!  I do not believe for one second that a loving God is pulling strings while picking and choosing who is going to be next!

You must remember, Nicole Kidman is an exceptional actress.  She has three beautiful children and is a millionaire along with Aaron Eckhart.  They have not truly experienced any of this torture that we go through day in and day out, but are only portraying a part in the movie as a mother and father who suffer with incomprehensible grief after losing their child.

I am just ordinary folk if you want to choose that word.  We live in the real world where we seek out each other to look for compassion and understanding.  The loss of my child will never fade and stay with me until the day I die:::::::::::::::::::::Tears!

My Beautiful Son and Precious Angel, I'll Love You Always and Forever! Mom