As with my review of the first season (which can be seen by clicking "See all my reviews" directly above this) I'm not going to comment on the acting, the story or anything of that sort.  Again, I gave it a five star rating, and that should imply my opinion well enough.

This time around I want to comment on the delay of the DVD release and the price of the set.

The delay, while unfortunate, is actually a good thing.  The third season of Deadwood was originally set to air concurrently with the sixth season of The Sopranos.  However, after HBO executives saw the first half of the third season, they felt the show had sufficient strength to not need to piggyback on the ratings of The Sopranos.  So Deadwood and Big Love switched time slots, with Deadwood moving to this summer.  So Deadwood is no longer The Sopranos' little brother.  This shows the confidence that HBO has in the show, and that means the show isn't going away any time soon.

As for the price of the set, keep in mind that HBO is a subscription based network -- meaning they don't make any money from advertising or product placement, which is what pays for most programming on network television (thus the need to charge more than other networks for the DVD releases of their shows).

HBO has something like 25-50 million subscribers, I believe, so most of the country hasn't seen a single episode of the season when it comes out on DVD.  Compare that to shows like Law & Order, 24, and Desperate Housewives which are free to anyone with a TV, so anyone interested in those shows has probably already seen at least half of the season by the time the DVD comes out.

I don't know specific numbers for Deadwood, or any of the other shows that I mentioned, but I do know that HBO spent approximately $4 million per episode of Carnivale, which, while a great show, never had anywhere near the popularity that Deadwood has.

So, yes, the set costs a bit of money.  And, yes, we did have to wait a little longer for the set than most of us would have liked.  But any comments about greed are unfounded.