The show is good. I went into this boxset mostly blind, watching only "Meet the Beat-Alls" and the first two episodes of season one before deciding this series was for me. Thankfully, I was right for the most part. The creator, Craig McCracken, basically was not involved with the show for seasons 5 and 6. Those two seasons are the worst. Season 1 is very good; seasons 2 and 3 are fantastic. Four, though only slightly worse than one, is the start of a decline that becomes more pronounced in season 5 and even steeper for season 6. (Make no mistake: this isn't a quality decline on par with SpongeBob SquarePants post-season 3. The episodes are still high quality, most of the time.) Note that the first three seasons (and part of season 4?) are beautifully hand-drawn, while the rest are computer-made and distinctly lacking the 60s-era Hannah-Barbara charm.

Only once did I find an episode completely worthless. That episode was "See Me, Feel Me, Gnomey". That rock opera is far, far too badly written it to have any merit. "Twas the Fight Before Christmas" wasn't that good, either. Christmas-themed episodes of shows rarely are.

The most disappointing aspects of this set are the physical packaging of it and the setup of the DVDs. The packaging is both cheap and cumbersome. I would have much preferred cheap and compact. Instead of 6 DVDs in 6 cases, they could have been split into 3 multi-disc cases. This could have saved Cartoon Network a few cents and allowed them to print covers that don't look like garbage.

The DVDs play the theme song before every episode, even when "play all" is selected. If I'm watching 15 episodes in one sitting, I don't need 15 theme songs to go with it. A minor gripe, since they were considerate enough to mark each theme song and credits as its own chapter, allowing easy skipping. More annoying was that the 10th anniversary special, originally aired in 16:9, was presented letterboxed for 4:3 televisions. This creates "windowboxing" on 16:9 TVs and means that less detail is available to the viewer.

The subtitles seem to have been edited from the original closed captioning. They write the Gangrene Gang phonetically as the "Gang Green" Gang. The parts where I most want subtitles (when characters are speaking very quickly as a joke and you're not supposed to hear what they're saying, for example) are the parts that subtitles don't cover. These lines, if you can catch them, are often funny, so it's a shame that they aren't written down.

Warner Bros. still has yet to distribute The Powerpuff Girls Movie in widescreen in the USA. One can find the uncropped European version online, but not including it here is mind-boggling.