I watched A Better Tomorrow, The Killer, and Hard-Boiled in that order, and each one builds a momentum and quality that the next film tops. I definitely recommend watching these films in that sequence, as the intensity of stunning cinematography, action drama, and character additions deepens.
A poster said that John Woo's dialogue is juvenile - I wonder whether he knows Cantonese or can even grasp the slang and nuances of the urban language of Hong Kong. A Cantonese speaker will probably testify that his scripts are quite savvy and smart. The pity is that Hong Kong slang, as in any foreign language (depending on what's foreign to you), is untranslatable. The timing of the jokes, retorts, and reflections is hard to faithfully translate without disrupting the meaning of the characters' words. Let's just say the English translation for the film is awful. The trade-off of reading a text or even watching a movie of a language different than your own is that a lot is butchered and obscured, demeaning the art piece's full glory.
Well, John Woo himself said he doesn't know much about gangsters. He's merely using his characters - often chivalrous and struggling with their conscience - to express his philosophy of a lost world of traditional values where the believer of those values is destroyed in a heroic tragedy. It's disputable to say that his gangster characters are a parody or not; some yes, some no. The actors portray the gangsters I've come across quite well; the gangsters' grandiose, crude, and ruthless mannerisms and ethics sketch a strong parody of them. However, I don't think the characters of "Alan" (Ah-Long in Cantonese) or "Joe" in The Killer are intentional parodies. Gangstar action films sell, but a straightforward, didactic story about the loss of idealized code of honor and ethics probably won't. But a gangstar flick coupled with some mourning for the lack of forthrightness in a Social Darwinist world by some memorable cops and gangsters sells remarkably well. The main characters are tragic heroes who experience intense agony and strive for honor in a heartless environment. 
I'm a big John Woo fan, so can't get too objective. All I can say is - SEE IT!