Following in Lucas's footsteps with his release of the original Star Wars as it was first presented. Spielberg does his sci-fi epic the same way with this excellent release of the 1977 UFO Classic, Close Encounters of the Third Kind. When it was first released on video back in the early 80's it was the Special Edition version which was released to theaters in 1980 with new end footage with the interiors of the Mother Ship as well as other scenes edited out entirely and replaced with other scenes or alternate versions of other scenes. In fact, the only way to ever see the original was when it aired on TV as a movie and even then the two versions were combined to fill a 3 hour time slot. In the 1990's Laserdisc owners were the first to be able to own the original version thanks to Criterion Collection laserdiscs, except that the end credits were from the 1980 version. Then in 2001, the Collector's edition came out and it was more of a marriage of the two versions as it still eliminated key scenes from the original version, yet restored the original
ending.  The Best part of this DVD set is that it pleases everyone. It has the original, complete with restored original 1977 end credits ( for the first time, The Special Edition, and the collector's edition and loads of special features including the extended teaser trailer for the first film, the trailer for the second and the advertising trailer for this ultimate colection edition.  The sound is presented in 5.1 Dolby and DTS format on all 3 discs. If you have the right stereo equipment, you could play the original in its original stereo sound format...but why. I'm all for nostalgia but this is one of those movies where you need to have the subwoofer active, especially at the final scenes where the mother ship blows out the glass in the observation tower. The video quality is also superb. I can only imagine what this film sounds like and looks like on the BLU-RAY version also available and for about the same price as this set through online discount retailers.  A must for any Spieleberg fan.
A little bit of trivia regarding both Star Wars and CE3K is that at the time of the release, both directors were reportedly in Hawaii, discussing the possibileity that their indiviual movies would flop  Both films were very succesful. And the projct they were discussing at theat time was another great franchise...the beginnings of what became to be Raiders of the Lost Ark.