Halo Legends could best be described as "canon filler" to bridge the gap in several story lines as well as give some background information on several characters in the Halo Universe.  I consider myself a very big fan of the Halo Universe and feel that I would be a bit more critical on it than others due to this. I will do a review per episode (spoiler free) and fill any gaps as well as give a package review at the end.

Episode 1 & 2: Origins
Rating: 5 Stars
In the closing moments of Halo 3, Master Chief and Cortana find themselves alone on what remains of the ship "Forward Unto Dawn" with little hope of immediate rescue. Cortana begins a monologue that fills in thousand of years of history in the Halo Universe.  One thing the "Origin" episodes do very well is answer several questions (even to long time halo fans) about the origins of the races and species of the universe, as well as details on the Forerunner/Flood War, UNSC/Insurrectionist War, and The Human/Covenant War.  The art is very modern anime, vibrant color's (something i feel is important to Halo), and above average animation.  A must watch though just for the story.

Episode 3: The Duel
Rating: 4 Stars
The Dual is the history, origin and legend of the Sangheili (Elite) title of Arbiter.  The story takes place on "Sanghelios" the home world of the Arbiter.  The "Covenant" is moving across space looking to rally various species to it's cause promising them great things in return (The Great Journey).  Many of the Sangheili bend to the will of The Prophets and join the "Covenant" but the actions of the original Arbiter worry the Prophets, in return the Covenant hierarchy construct a plan to shame the title "Arbiter".  While the art style is modern CG Animation, the studio used a filter to give it a water color look.  While this was a decent approach and something different it seems too blurry at times all is not lost though as the story has a lot of emotion and one hell of a fight scene.

Episode 4: Homecoming
Rating: 4 Stars
First I can not dig to deep in this episode with out going in to spoilers. That being said Homecoming tells the story of the Spartan II solider Daisy-023.  This is more a story of the origin of the Spartan II's and how some of the candidates felt and what happened to when the children where conscripted at a young age without their parents knowing.  The story revolves around a small group of Spartan II's who wanted out of the program and the events that followed.

Episode 5: Odd One Out
Rating: 3 Stars
This being the only non-canon episode in Halo Legends, it tells the story of the Legendary Soldier - Spartan 1337 (leet speak for "Elite").  This comedic episode plays more to the tune of how absurdly powerful Spartans are depicted by "fanboys".  The episode is at times comic genius to those familiar with anime such as Naruto and Dragonball Z.  The Animation is average and the story is just fun and has a humorous cameo with Master Chief and Cortana.  The three star rating is based on that it offers nothing to the set as a whole nor is it considered canon in the universe.

Episode 6: The Baby Sitter
Rating: 4 Stars
"The Babysitter" is about an small group of UNSC O.D.S.T. who are sent on a mission to eliminate a covenant threat and slow the progress of the alien armada.  The O.D.S.T's including Dutch (From Halo 3: ODST) discover they have been assigned a new team member for this mission, which happens to be a Spartan II named Cal-141.  The episodes real focus is on how the O.D.S.T. view Spartans before they understand them and how no matter the cost Spartan soldier will protect humanity at all cost.  The art is modern anime (along the lines of Samurai Champloo / Cowboy Bebop) great color though darker tones to represent the emotion of the story and great dialog between the characters.

Episode 7: The Package
Rating: 5 Stars
This is the one everyone needs to see.  The Covenant have intercepted a very important package to humanity and the UNSC decides to send Blue Team to recover it.  Spartan II's John-117 (Master Chief), Frederic-104, and Kelly-087 (also including Solomon-069 and Arthur-079) use booster frames to storm through the Covenant armada in space to find the Flagship of the fleet.  The episode is far to fun to spoil as you watch John-117 (Master Chief), Frederic-104, and Kelly-087 rush through waves of Covenant to secure the package.  The art work is modern CG Animation in the same vein of recent "Appleseed" animated movies, the only complaint is they did not use the english voice actor Steve Downes (Master Chiefs voice actor since Halo: combat Evolved).

Overall the multiple story lines and animation types keeps the overall package fresh and it is a must for any Halo fan out there who wants a little more story and less action.