I thought this was a touching and wonderfully creative film. Part comedy, part tragedy, "Life Is Beautiful" is a fictional tale that tackles an incredibly difficult subject, but does so primarily through omission.

Some reviewers criticize this movie as little more than "garbage" or even as "obscene" because it does not depict the raw horrors of the Holocaust. While I disagree with the negative assessments, this much is true: When you watch this film, you will not see the stark, brutal hell endured by the victims of Nazi evil - but that is precisely the point of this particular story. The horrors are left out by design.

"Life Is Beautiful" relates the story of Guido and his family through the eyes of his innocent young son, Joshua. It is assumed that we - the viewers - are already aware of what happened in that place and time. We know what the Nazis were doing; we know about the atrocities they committed and the plans they had for the Jewish people. But the point of the film is that Joshua never does!

In the movie, Guido protects his son by disguising - and yes, as an earlier reviewer wrote, he "sugar coats" - the terrible things they encounter while in Nazi hands. Through Guido's efforts, deportation becomes a "trip" for young Joshua, and internment in the camp becomes a "game". None of these things is ever a game for Guido or the other adults in the film, but they are always seen that way by the child.

It is precisely the lack of horror in Joshua's experience that allows him to cope and, ultimately, to survive with his innocence in tact - an outcome made possible only through the terrific ingenuity of his loving and fiercely protective father. The closing lines of the film, spoken by Joshua, sum it up very nicely: "This is my story. This is the sacrifice my father made. This was his gift to me."

"Life Is Beautiful" is a fictional tale with a Holocaust theme, but it is not all-encompassing. It does not seek to detail every horror of the Holocaust; it is not a historical survey of the event and does not pretend to be an educational resource. Not every Holocaust story can relate every aspect or every detail of what happened, but - like this one - not all are intended to.

I recommend this film to everyone, but urge that viewers take it for what it is: one unique story from one unique perspective.