"Der Krieger und die Kaiserin" (the literal translation is The Empress and the Warrior, but the director preferred "princess" for the English version) is the sixth film from young German director Tom Tykwer (Run Lola Run).  I'd looked at the DVD several times before, curious, but when I finally watched it, I was disturbed by several gory scenes and the dark tone of the picture.  However, like driving by a brutal accident, you can't help but look.  This film was the same way for me...it haunted me for days until I sat down and watched it again with a new appreciation for Mr. Tykver's craft.

Instead of giving away any of the plot, you have to see the film for yourself to make sense of the multiple storylines.  I will say that fate and destiny are at the heart of the film. "The Princess and the Warrior" runs a little over two hours, and does feel like it could have benefited from tighter editing in spots.  There are several disturbing sequences (a sexual act between a nurse and a patient, an emergency tracheotomy, suicide attempts, murder) that are definitely not for the faint of heart (hence the R rating).

The story is slow to unfold, but ultimately rewarding.  Instead of the intense energy that bathed Run Lola Run, The Princess and the Warrior is more subdued; a downward spiral of depression, dark desires, painful secrets, and finally, redemption by love. The haunting music (composed by Tykwer) perfectly complements the melancholic tension onscreen---single heavy piano notes fading into silence, bells, and the eerie theme song "You Can't Find Peace" (the music video is included on the DVD).

The DVD transfer deserves an A+.  Great care was taken in terms of menu design (although the chapter menu can be a bit confusing at first) and extras (making of, numerous deleted scenes, music video, cast (Franka Potente, Benno F&uuml;rmann) and director's commentary, filmographies, trailers and more).  The making of, like most making ofs, includes more shots from the actual film than behind-the-scenes (and is entirely in German to boot).  If you want to hear the real scoop, be sure to listen to the various audio commentaries. The commentaries are generally fun and interesting (all the cast and crew speak near-native English), and the actors talk about scene motivation, grueling shoots, and funny memories from the set. I would recommend renting this movie before purchasing it, as it will only appeal to a certain audience.