The film begins with 10-year-old Melanie Prouvost's preparations for a piano recital that could win her a place in a prestigious Parisian conservatory.  She informs her working-class parents that she will quit the piano if she doesn't succeed.  During the audition, a judge is asked for an autograph and this distraction causes Melanie to flub her piece.  Angered by this perceived slight and convinced of her lost opportunity, she forever gives up her ambition.  The story fast-forwards to ten years later and Melanie is now an intern in a law firm.  She overhears her boss saying that his son needs a nanny.  Melanie gets the job.  We find out that the boss' wife is none other than the judge who caused her to fumble at the recital, Ariane Fouchecourt, a renowned pianist.  Ariane is a fragile woman whose confidence at concerts eroded after an auto accident.  Melanie ingratiates herself with Ariane and the life of the Bourgeoisie that Melanie can only imagine.  In short order she becomes Ariane's trusted page-turner at concerts and a much-needed source of affection.  We assume Melanie is acting out a part, biding her time, waiting for the opportune moment to exact her revenge.  We don't know when, we don't know how, we just know it'll happen.

"The Page Turner (La tourneuse de pages)" is not an average revenge thriller.  Sans bloodshed, hysterics and action, the thrills here are tepid compared to what we're accustomed to in American films, but it is the very absence of these elements that makes the revenge itself unique and satisfying.  It is bone-chillingly delivered in an elegant package topped with a creepy bow.  It is the kind of cerebral horror that the master himself, Alfred Hitchcock, would have wanted to make a cameo appearance in...after he's made some script changes and given director Denis Dercourt a few lessons, mind you.

At barely 80 minutes, the film gets to its meaty part rapidly, soon after the few and slow developments that don't necessarily terrify, but do make one nervous.  The young Belgian actress, Deborah Francois as Melanie, is a study in understatement.  Hardly reacting, blonde and cold, she's the epitome of beauty and menace combined.  Catherine Frot, as Ariane, is a quivering bowl of Jell-O that doesn't quite gel, a tad difficult to accept that such an accomplished artist would allow a mere snip of a girl to overtake her life with nary a suspicion.

There is a subtext in this film, which I hope is not revealed as it is upon which the revenge hinges.  Some have seen it as deficient, but it is what warranted my appreciation.  The settling of scores, when it comes, is nothing as mundane as murder, and its effect is more devastating when compared to the quick release of death.

Comparisons to Claude Chabrol's films have been made, particularly to "La Ceremonie" (an adaptation of Ruth Rendell's `A Judgment in Stone').  Not quite.  La Ceremonie was a tragedy that fully explored the circumstances behind the perversity of its characters.  The Page Turner does not.  We are left only to accept, without doubt, that a 10-year-old would have the wherewithal to nurse a grievance for so long and plan an annihilation ten years down the road.  That is one messed-up kid.

(Language: French with English subtitles)