Ziegfeld Girl is a good movie but personally I don't think its memorable. Even though James Stewart and Judy Garland get top billing it is mostly a Lana Turner movie. Anyway the movie is about three girls with diffrent backgrounds that become Ziegfeld Girls. Susan Gallagher (Judy Garland) is a vaudeville star who wants to see her name in lights.  Sandra Kolter (Hedy Lamarr) is the girl devoted to her marriage (her husband is a struggling concert violinist) even though she does starts to fall for singer Frank Merron (Tony Martin). Sheila Regan (Lana Turner) is a elevator operator who has trouble with her boyfriend Gilbert Young (James Stewart) and eventually falls and becomes a heavy drinker. This movie also co-stars Tony Martin, Edward Everett Horton, Jackie Cooper, and Eve Arden. This movie also contains some great numbers.

Here are the numbers:

Laugh? I Thought I'd Split My Sides- Judy sings this number with Charles Winninger who plays her father in the movie. They sing this as part of their vaudeville act.

You Stepped out of a Dream- Tony Martin sings this as part of the Ziegfeld show. It has all three girls walking on stairs. Hedy Lamrr looks beautiful in this number!

I'm Always Chasing Rainbows- Judy sings this number twice first its really fast and jazzy and then she sings it like a ballad.

Caribbean Love Song- Tony sings this number in the Ziegfeld show and you can see Hedy and Lana in this number too.

Minnie from Trinidad- Judy sings this number in the Ziegfeld show and its great. Its all tropical. There is this cool part in the number where Judy sits on this surface and the chorus raises her with these large poles and she is still singing!

Mr. Gallagher and Mr. Shean- Charles Winninger and Al Shean perform this cute little number in the Ziegfeld show.

Ziegfeld Girls- Judy performs this number in the show.

You Gotta Pull Strings- Judy performs this number in the show also and the chorus girls sing and dance.

You Never Looked So Beautiful- This is the finale number and Judy performs it with a chrous. It is a breathtaking scene! Actually it is extacly like the number "A Pretty Girl is Like a Melody" from The Great Ziegfeld. I also read somewhere that they had Judy costumed and made up to resemble Virginia Bruce who was crowned the "Wedding Cake" set in the earlier film.

If you really enjoy musicals, Judy Garland, or Lana Turner then I suggest you see this movie. It has a lot of breathtaking numbers and it was directed very well!