[A Note on Editions: If you are a fan of the series, make sure that you get the 2-Disc Ultimate Edition.  That edition includes all of the documentaries, trailers, and extra content.  The single disc Ultimate Edition just contains the cleaned up movie, sound, and commentaries.  If you're not interested in the documentaries, go ahead and save a little money.  But, by all means, avoid the "Special" edition.  There is nothing special about it, particularly compared to its Ultimate brethren.]

With producer Harry Saltzman out of the picture, his long-time partner Albert Broccoli knew that he had better find success with THE SPY WHO LOVED ME or face the end of an era.  Accordingly, more money was thrown at the film.  After the staggering sums of money spent on THUNDERBALL and YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE, the producers scaled back the production for the next four films, with mixed success.  For THE SPY WHO LOVED ME, the budget was doubled from the budget for THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN GUN and it certainly shows.  This film marks the first good Roger Moore Bond, by this time comfortable with the role and with a budget to back him up.  While it certainly doesn't match the class of some of Connery's best endeavors, it surpasses his weaker outings and is certainly one of the better Moore pictures, if not the best.

After the opening "gun barrel" sequence, we are greeted with an opening that smells familiar.  An underwater submarine experiences trouble and is "lost."  We soon learn that both a Royal British Navy submarine and a Russian submarine have mysteriously disappeared.  We next find Bond in Austria, wooing yet another  girl, only to receive word that he must return to headquarters.  After quickly suiting up in ski gear, Bond takes off on a terrific ski chase that looks wonderfully modern, diving in between crevasses and glaciers.  The scene ends with one of the most spectacular Bond stunts ever--Bond ski jumps off of a cliff, removes his skis mid-flight, and pulls the ripcord on a surprise parachute in the colors of the Union Jack.  The parachute gracefully falls down into a pair of hands and Binder's title sequence is underway.  The titles feature falling & trampoline silhouettes dancing through the air, as well as a male and female figure tossling with a gun, setting up the inevitable rivalry between the film's main protagonists.  The song, sung by Carly Simon, is one of the best Bond songs.  All in all, we are off to a great start.

The plot of THE SPY WHO LOVED ME is quite predictable and we soon realize why the opening teaser seemed so familiar: it is virtually a remake of YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE.  In fact, we even have the same director, Lewis Gilbert, behind the lens.  In both films, an evil villain has a device capable of swallowing transportation vehicles (space capsules in the previous film, nuclear submarines in this one) and plans to wreak havoc on the world, all the while confusing the Russians and the Americans about the mysterious nature of the disappearances.

This time around, however, the Russians have a compelling agent of their own in the character of Agent Triple X, Major Anya Amasova (Barbara Bach).  In a world that was increasingly more accepting of female heroines, the Bond franchise finally gave Bond a leading lady that could hold her own.  At least this is how the critics tell it.  While Major Amasova is certainly the Bond girl who is most explicitly Bond's equal (given that the scriptwriters make sure to give them dueling lines), the best Bond girls have always been captivating and interesting in their own right.  In any case, the film begins with our two agents chasing down a piece of microfilm containing the plans of a tracking device capable of tracking nuclear submarines while they are underwater.  Whoever has the plans must be responsible for the mysterious submarine disappearances.  After a lengthy game of cat & mouse, the Russian and American forces finally decide to come together, pool their resources, and solve the case together.  From this point on in the film, Bond & Major Amasova must work together before time runs out.  The villain behind all of this is Karl Stromberg (Curd Jurgens), a man with serious Captain Nemo overtones, who has built a lavish underwater facility that he calls Atlantis.  Using the nuclear missiles aboard the captured submarines, Stromberg plans to nuke both New York and Moscow, starting a nuclear holocaust.  While the races above ground will fight it out until extinction, Stromberg will like peacefully beneath the waves in his wonderful city and establish a new civilization.  Will Bond and Major Amasova be able to stop his evil plans before it is too late?

THE SPY WHO LOVED ME is memorable for several reasons.  First, the action in this picture is much better than the previous two Moore adventures.  Indeed, with an increased budget, the producers prove that you can do almost anything.  The set designs by Ken Adam are mammoth in size and the film entertains from start to finish.  While Stromberg's "Nemo" is not a very interesting character, his famous henchman Jaws (Richard Kiel) certainly makes up for it.  Equipped with metal jaws, a sense of humor, and invulnerability, Jaws is a great addition to the movie.  He certainly would not have worked outside the campy humor and puns of the Moore era, but inside of it he thrives and is a highlight of the film.  Indeed, he was so good and loved by audiences that he would be the only henchman to return in another Bond film (MOONRAKER).  Roger Moore is beginning to look a bit old in this film, especially across from Barbara Bach, who turns in a very good performance as Bond's equal.  Another highlight of the film, for me, is the Lotus Esprit, the best Bond vehicle since the infamous Aston Martin DB5.  Capable of converting into a submarine, the Lotus provides one of the best chase sequences in the series.  I can still remember watching these scenes as a child and wanting just such a car.  Hats off to the designers.  Additionally, the chase scene is notable for its fantastic helicopter work.

All in all, THE SPY WHO LOVED ME is a good entry in the series and certainly one of Moore's best films.  It is wonderful escapist entertainment and provides good action sequences from start to finish.  While I am generally annoyed by the more tongue-in-cheek Bonds, this film works and for some reason I don't mind the campy humor.  The Ultimate Edition looks and sounds great.  In fact, despite the aging Moore, this is one of the first films that looks current.  The effects and sets are starting to catch up with modern pictures and the picture doesn't look so dated as some of the other entries.  This new DVD set helps capture that, as well as containing all of the extras we've come to know and love.  This is definitely a must-see Bond film.