A friend of mine introduced me to this series almost two years ago. He was pretty emphatic in saying that, "It's not like other anime at all." He was right. I am not a big anime fan, my friend though is. I find a good bit of anime to be too "campy", silly, or just not worth the time. Neon Genesis Evangelion is far from that however.
Much like other people told by friends or reviewers that this series was different, I devoted all my attention when I started watching it in hopes that it would not take long to find out why it was "different". I was hooked quickly. When seeing the first battle and the explosion in the shape of a giant glowing cross I was immediately intrigued, and I was hooked too.
The series moves overall at this medium pace to keep you in the story, but at the same time not tire you too quick by drowning you in too much plot at once. I can 99.9999% guarantee that you will not get all of the story in the first past even if you pay 100% attention. The series is filled with a lot of imagery. There are important details in what is said, and what is NOT said.
One will quickly notice that the biblical themes are very strong in the series. They in fact provide for a very powerful vehicle in which the message of the series is carried to it's amazing conclusion. Let me point out here that the ending is very unconventional. You must be open minded and not rely on your expectations. The creator of the series is in fact giving the viewer a gift of sorts.
After watching this series I immediately wanted to get it for myself, but was not able to until a few months ago. I purchased this box set, which includes the re-dubbed volume 1 DVD. The initial Volume 1 had some audio errors. This box set also included a very nice slip case that holds the DVDs. I suggest that those interested in this series shop around. I purchased my box set new at [...] for under [$$$] dollars.
So  if you are not a big fan of anime because you found it too be too shallow, silly, or just not that interesting I highly suggest you give Evangelion an honest try.