I've been a fan of Jim Carrey for many years. Honestly I was initially embarrassed when this movie first came out, because the clips and previews I'd seen of it portrayed a lispy, under-bitten, very dorky Carrey in a movie I wasn't quite sure what the heck was going on with it. However, after recently viewing the movie with a critical eye and more open mind, that embarrassment has declined.

Overall I find this film to be 'laugh-out-loud-abley' humorous with a unique, interesting plot. The humor in this film, to me, was saturated in the subtle. The 'over the top' scenes involving the Cable Guy (basketball, Medieval restaurant battle, karaoke, mustached C.G.) at times went on too long, and were too slapstick for me. But Carrey and Broderick's facial work/expressions in key scenes (Steven signing the Cable Guy's forms when they first meet, the spider creeping across the Cable Guy's face) were hilarious. Broderick does an excellent job with his deadpan, unenthused attitude toward Carrey's outrageous, clever demeanor. It is an unusual casting in my opinion first off, but it does actually work as the movie progresses.

Additionally unusual was the tone. It tried to be dark and creepy at times, but all the humor inter-spliced made the film kind of confusing as to what it was trying to pull off.

The acting was pretty well done by all involved. Not only was Carrey humorous, but he seemed to nail his character very well. There were a lot of subtle expressions and spoken words that was consistent with the character throughout - a man raised poorly only by cable programs, who had little human socialization skills, desperate for a friend, and will stop at nothing to get one. Again, with the exception of a few scenes, subtlety was Carrey's strong point here, which was surprising from how I expected him to act. With Broderick, again, his placid expressions and demeanor was a great opposite to Carrey.

Ben Stiller did a good job with a lot of the humor involved in his directing. The scenes with himself in it were random and good. Jack Black did a nice job playing Steven's suspicious and quirky friend. Another very funny scene was Eric Roberts' cameo - see it to believe it! So, even though the 'darker' side to this film clashed strangely with its humorous side, it's worth watching for the subtle yet hilarious humor, decent character development, and the memorable smaller characters.