Ended up the bullet did have a name, but I've already forgotten what it was, and I just saw the movie yesterday.  I couldn't tear my eyes away from the screen.  I'll never forget Audie.
 When I was a teenager back in the 40's and 50's.  I had a huge crush on him from seeing To Hell and Back 6 or 8 times.  I'm sure I must have seen some others of his movies since my boyfriend at the time, my husband of 52 years now, loved and still loves Westerns, old and new, as we all did in those days seeing as how we had more westerns than any other genre'.  We had 5 drive-in theatres in our small town and 4 up-town theatres, and so it could be that I saw lots more of his movies. I'm getting them from Amazon and watching them now with my still "boyfriend". I think, however it could just be my old tired brain that doesn't let me remember.  Anyhow, watching To Hell and Back over and over, was enough at the time for me.  They don't get any better than Audie playing himself. I believe he mostly always played himself no matter what the movie.  Just cool, calm and collected.  I'm seeing them now.  He is still irresistible to me.  I don't think I saw this one.  I believe I would have remembered that very clever ending.  I thought at one point in the movie, "that's gotta be a clue, but it wasn't the clue that I thought it would be". (I hope I didn't give it away.)  I'm glad I never read the book, if there was one  It would have spoiled the movie for me.  Audie was just awesome in this movie.  Just as all you other reviewers said.  He was a "cool hand AUDIE".  (Remindful slightly of Gary Cooper, Paul Newman and Clint Eastwood, but he WAS AUDIE)I have missed him so much over the years after his unfortunate and untimely death. It's odd how that when you see someone over and over in a movie or on TV or just listening to the same music over and over the way I'm wont to do (Don Gibson) you form a kind of friendship or some kind of weird feeling that you're related.
 His small stature was outshone by his presence, seemingly nonchalantness, and his fearlessness.  I still say there should be an Audie Murphy Day every year on his birthday, or maybe the birthday of the day he climbed up on that burning tank and mowed down probably dozens of the enemy and saved how many of his men, or even on VE Day, since he played a huge part in that, but it's way overdue, and so I guess we'll never see one. Think about it:  We don't have any commemorative day for our country's most decorated war hero, but we have days for other peoples who never served our country.  As far as I know he never even got a stamp.  Elvis did.!! Oh I'm sorry, Elvis did serve.  Maybe if he'd given his life "over there"??!!.  But it's all the more astounding that he didn't have to give his life. He was "bigger" than all of those Germans put together.  And he had a heart evidenced in his To Hell and Back book and movie. He loved his Mama and his siblings very much and took very good care of them.  When I met my love of my life, and then met his mama, and observed them together, I was talking about it with my mama one day and she said to me "A man who loves his Mother and is good to her, is a wonderful man and will make a very good husband for some lucky girl."  I believe it!!
This was an outstanding movie, and Audie made it so for me.  If the director could take the credit for Audie's acting in this movie, then he truly deserved the credit.  But to me, it was just the way Audie has always been.  Even when he was "Over There" killing the bad guys.
I wanted to go out to Hollywood and get him and bring him home with me, but my mama wouldn't let me.
He was always MISTER COOL.
However, in his biography, the author said he had his demons haunting him after his return from the war.  Well, that is totally understandable, but he surely didn't wear them on his sleeve.  WHAT A BIG MAN!