In this direct to DVD cliche-ridden stinker, Kevin Costner makes a new name for himself from the Hollywood wonder boy to a one dimensional B movie man. A father brings a reluctant daughter and young son to live in a mansion in a wooded South Carolina rural area after his wife leaves him. In the first five minutes, the stereotypes are formulated with Kevin Costner as the uninspired former author trying to reclaim his motivation to write, Gattlin Griffith as his ever obedient son trying to please his father by doing everything right and Ivana Baquero as his rebellious daughter who blames her father for the departure of her mother and for bringing her to this isolated home and land. It's no surprise why the mother left when you become acquainted with this family. Uninspired is an accurate premise as Mr. Costner does his best with a one note, one dimensional acting forte that will put you to sleep even with a hot cup of extra double caffeinated coffee. Even if you spill that hot coffee on your lap, you will not wake up when he's acting. His acting role from being fatherly, to being surprised, to being angry, to discovery, to disciplining the kids to flirting with a local school teacher are all exactly the same. He does not deviate in his delivery of his lines or even feign any broad strokes of emotion or feelings. It's better to watch wood warp or iron rust or grass grow than to see this actor act. Ivana Baquero becomes entangled with the spirits that inhabit the wooded area and changes from an innocent rebellious teen to devilish rebellious teen. Watching her, you will see absolutely no difference as she begins to change, is changing or when she has already changed. It's the same person, by golly, just a little more eye shadow. There is no explanation for what happens to the family and why it is happening. At least in some independent horror movies, some semblance of a reasonable explanation is provided. Here, the cliche ridden creatures run rampart with no foreseeable explanation. Are they spirits of Native Americans from their burial ground? Why do they want the New Daughter? What is their motivation to attract her as a queen bee? Or, are the creatures just her father's ID running rampart. Nah, that would be a too deep an interpretation for this little, light fare. The scares are not scary, the sequences are predictable, the atmosphere is not moody and the story has absolutely no interesting development or a plot device. Just as Michael Douglas has now gravitated towards straight to DVD stinkers (see my review of his Beyond a Reasonable Doubt film), Kevin Costner is now following suit. It's a shame because I really enjoyed Kevin in the Postman and even Waterworld where his wooden acting actually worked in those movies. I hope that his agent finds more quality roles for him or that he gets fired. Furthermore, I hope that Ivana Baquero either develops an acting range or completely get out of acting and do something useful like host bland encounter group seminars. This one will put you and the kids to sleep right away. When insomnia strikes, just put the New Daughter in your player for a restful night of fast approaching dozing.