It seems that all of these reviews are focusing on the fact that this movie is so different from what we expect from Martin Scorsese, which it is.  Outside of some signature tricks, there is nothing that one could identify as Scorsesian in this movie.  But that is entirely irrelevant; what matters is the quality of the film, not the people who make it, and this is a brilliant movie.  This is a rich subtlety to the whole movie, a silent beauty which is felt rather than seen.  Besides a great directing turn by Scorsese (who was nominated by the Directors' Guild for best director on this movie; an award which is often the truest representation of a great director), there is also a wonderful performance from the acting ensemble.  Much like Scorsese, Daniel Day-Lewis gives a far more subtle performance than we are used to, which probably explains why people tend to disregard this performance when it is put alongside his work in "My Left Foot" and "In the Name of the Father."  It may have even been worthy of an Oscar nomination, except that the Academy refuses to nominate an actor twice in the same category (in the same year "The Age of Innocence was released, he was already nominated for Best Actor in "In the Name of the Father," which is a more stunning and Oscar-friendly role).  Winona Ryder did receive a well earned nomination for Best Supporting Actress, playing the role of an (apparently) naive wife.  Even Michelle Pfeiffer (of whom I am not a particular fan) more than pulls off the role of Countess Ellen Olenska.
This is a film which in many years would have earned a fair number of Oscar nominations (including Best Picture and Best Director), but was the odd-film-out in a strong year of cinema (1993 featured "Schindler's List," "The Piano," "In the Name of the Father," and "Philadelphia," to name a few).  It is unfortunate that movies are given recognition on a year-to-year basis, so that in a strong year there will be a few unfortunate snubs (and likewise in a weak year an undeserving movie will come up big).  "The Age of Innocence" is a beautifully done film, one that strikes at the soul with its subtle grace and beauty; a truly poignant film.  I was quite sceptical when I bought it; in all honesty, my tastes tend more towards "The Godfather" and "Five Easy Pieces," but my gamble was well rewarded.  Don't overlook this underrated Scorsese masterpiece.