Band of Brothers (BOB) is probably the best war movie I've ever seen.  I give both movies five stars and I am glad to have seen them.  This one is very good in a couple of respects.  One, filmed in 1949, the equipment, clothing, accents, buildings, terrain, etc. may have been a little more authentic to the period.  BOB, essentially dismissed the role of faith, where this movie gave it a respected attention.  Plus when Layton went from his naivete to being battle hardened, his faith also was challenged as he became more cynical; again probably a more honest treatment of what likely happened to some soldiers - again, especially given the time period and producing the film so soon after the war, while the returning vets and people were still hurting and trying to understand what they had just experienced.  A lot of the BOB actors were 2000's cool, while the actors in Battleground were a little corny and "country".  As I recollect my father, uncles, friends in eastern NC in the 1950's, Battleground comes much closer.  Can't read too much into it, but BOB explained "Why We Fight" in a segment by the same name by depicting a concentration camp and people having been tortured.  Battleground explains this when the Chaplain gave his service.  It took a different tact, contrasting fascism with a freedom loving people, and emphasizing the necessity of the war.  The other thing I liked in Battleground was the open and honest treatment of the role of Chaplains who sometimes had to minister to all faiths in one service, again it was handled well and probably more accurately - referencing Jewish faith, Lutherans, and others - fear and ignorance probably prevented the producers of BOB from doing the same.  Expectations need to be a little lower when you watch Battleground, black and white, less professional cinematography (or maybe it's just the equipment, I don't know that craft), it is somewhat obvious when they are walking on a set in some movie studio set.  Also splicing in actual war footage in some scenes if contrived but effective in what they are trying to convey.