I've always thought that comic strip screen adaptations are ahit and miss affaiir.Not only has it got to be so escapist andentertaining as to distract you from the implausability of it all, butfor every BATMAN there's a BATMAN &amp; ROBIN.For every BLADE there'sa SUPERMAN IV:THE QUEST FOR PEACE!! Not being that familiar withX-MEN,I thought this might have failed.D'OH!!! What an excellentmovie.Definitely one of the best movies of 2000. For theuninitiated(ME!!) it's the start of a great new movie franchse,and agreat introduction to the X MEN universe.This is done through the eyesof its newer member,WOLVERINE(Hugh Jackman).What a revelation! Notonly does he provide a dark edge to an otherwise family summerblockbuster, but he steals the show with some killer lines andput-downs of CYCLOPS(James Marsden). Also a bit of inspired casting oftwo great Shakspearean actors,Patrick Stewart and Ian McKellan asflipsides of the same coin.One preserving the fragile peace betweenhuman and mutant in a not too distant future,the other pushing forconfrontation. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.My only gripe was thatit was all over too soon.  You'll be pining for X MEN 2 like you wouldbe for ... &amp; 3.There,I said it!! ... and X MEN in the samesentence.It's that good!!  Now then: the DVD.I have to say that beinga lover of Region 2 discs,I found this to be as perfect Region 1transfer as you'll ever get. You get a really groovy animated menu inthe form of a 3D moving image of Xavier's "BIG ROUND ROOM"!!The extras? I don't know where to start! Not only do you get a wealthof trailers,you get a "newscast" expanding on BruceDavidson's MUTANT Summit,and an interview with Bryan Singer.Did Imention storyboards? Also a screen test of Hugh Jackman with fellowAntipodean, Anna Paquin(great chemistry).  The big extra,though,is notonly do you get a wealth of deleted scenes,you can choose to watch aspecial X-tended Branching Version which jumps out of the mainfeature,and inserts the relevent deleted scene into the movie.Much inthe same way as the "White Rabbit" mode of the ...DVD. I've had this DVD since Christmas and I can't get enough ofit. So go on. Treat yourself!!  THE FATE OF THE HUMAN RACE DEPENDS ONIT!!