We all know that some of the animation in Shadow Chronicles is computer-generated; my question is, so what? I had no trouble telling that an Alpha fighter was an Alpha, or that an Invid scout was a scout. The dedication to reproducing the original mecha in updated style was obvious. To me, these updates didn't diminish the Robotech legacy, they just brought it into the twenty-first century.

Will people complain? Of course--a great many supposed fans of Robotech still complain that Carl Macek made the series at all, preferring the "original" Japanese storylines of the show's three unrelated components. These purists will certainly have no love for Shadow Chronicles, nor should we expect them to. I thought that the new mecha animations looked great, and I appreciated that the characters and other scenery were traditionally animated. Surprisingly, these didn't seem out of sync.

The storyline in Shadow Chronicles is setting the stage for something, a precursor to an expanded Robotech tale that goes beyond what was seen in the original trilogy. It also goes beyond and in some cases against what Robotech fans may know from the Jack McKinney novels; this is not surprising, because McKinney's novels themselves were out of sync with the show in several important ways. It is a bit tricky, though, because in the case of the Sentinels saga (i.e. what the REF and Admiral Hunter were up to halfway across the galaxy while Earth was fighting the Second Robotech War), there IS no show to fall back on for most of it. Whatever we as fans know of the storyline comes from the novels.

Is that a problem? It doesn't have to be. Shadow Chronicles is, as I mentioned, clearly a pilot for a new Robotech storyline. Provided that new storyline helps us learn the key points of what happened "off stage" regarding the Haydonites, etc., we could seamlessly be brought up to speed on the Sentinels storyline as it was assumed when making this film (rather than the storyline from the books). Among these key points: how the Haydonites rose to such power so quickly after the fall of Invid Regent; why their world was spared outright destruction by the Regent if the Invid knew that they were responsible for the destruction of Optera; the relationship between the Haydonites and the Robotech Masters, who seem to have been Haydonite agents of sorts but clearly were Protoculture users; and how Louis Nichols came to be part of the REF by the time of the attack on Reflex Point (which was not the case in the books).

These are areas of opportunity, though, where Harmony Gold can expand and enhance the Robotech storyline. They're not "flaws" in the storyline. Robotech: Shadow Chronicles fits nicely with the conclusion of the original series and lays the foundations for a new Robotech saga. If Shadow Chronicles is a bit light on personal development, I'd suggest that you rewatch the first 2-3 episodes of each of the original Robotech series; it takes time for characters to become real.