This movie is one of my absolute favorites (and I've seen a lot of movies).  It is all about conflict - the conflict that Frankie experiences with the stigmata (fighting for her life, essentially), the conflict that Andrew faces within himself because of his attraction to Frankie and the vow that he took for the church, the conflict between authority and subordinates (the church's attempts to suppress information).  The film is beautifully directed with amazing angles, and a lot of work was put into production (view with director's commentary - he'll explain a lot in it).

The actors are also amazing - I am really impressed with Gabriel Byrne's portrayal of Father Kierning.  He is very expressive and is able to relay emotion without speaking, which is a great gift.  (And he's really easy on the eyes, too, lol.)  Patricia Arquette also is amazing - she makes Frankie a very strong woman and someone who isn't in the "mainstream" but who is very logical and intelligent.  Despite the bad rap that ravers get, most are thinkers, which I see in Frankie.  The supporting role by Nia Long is extremely well-done.  As the best friend, she brings to the role a caring person who's always by Frankie's side; she's concerned without being cheesy, which is a touch of realism that I'm glad was included in the movie.

The look of the film, the colors, the way that the film was processed (with "skipping," which is explained on the DVD) also give it a dark yet light and ethereal look which I think was essential to making this movie work.

As far as the topics of the movie (because there is more than one), they are all thought-provoking and should be examined closely to really be absorbed.  If you like make-you-think movies, you will definitely love this movie.

The one beef I had with this DVD was the director's alternate ending.  I think that the theatrical ending is much better because it leaves more to the imagination.  The viewer can see the ending however he or she pleases; interpretation is at the hands of the viewer.  The movie itself however, is awesome, and had I been able to give it ten stars, I would've.  I cannot say how amazing I think this movie is (because I don't have the space, lol), but I just think that it's very worthy and deserving of 5 stars.  An AMAZING film.