This is my first Blu-Ray, and while my expectations were somewhat high, especially since I'm a former HD DVD exclusive consumer, they were completely met by this presentation. Granted, I'm already a big fan of this movie, which I consider to potentially be one of my favorites. Despite that, I had heard of the issues with the first round of this movie and I'm pleasantly reporting that the "Remastered" version is as pristine as you could hope for in a late 1990s movie transfered to Blu-ray. Playback was via a brand new Playstation 3 using HDMI 1.3 with deep color and displayed on a Samsung 52" 65F series LCD HDTV.

The sound was high quality and cinema-like on a simple Denon system using the disc's 48khz/16bit 5.1 PCM sound via a Toslink optical audio cable. The early ledge scene was particularly pleasant. It was at that point that I knew this would be one awesome ride.

Like many of you, I was lured by the incredible price cuts that Toshiba made during the pre-2007 Christmas season on HD DVD hardware. No regrets, since the movies I purchased are all of excellent quality with the hardware to match. It's just a shame that some sort of unified standard or dual-format standard could not have been agreed upon. I think the HDM market was really hurt by this.

The death of HD DVD early this year left me with a huge selection of clearance HD DVDs, but that only lasted a couple of months. If you're like me, you were spoiled with HD and could not look back. The void had to be filled and I was too bitter to jump onto Blu-ray. One day while browsing my reactivated Live account, I stumbled upon high def downloads via Live. This is what kept me going throughout summer and satisfied my HD desires. They're mostly 720p, but are very high quality and playback begins within moments on my cable internet connection. The HD TV show selection is fantastic, and you get to keep them forever! I highly recommend the Live service! You don't even need to pay for "Gold" access, the "Silver" membership is free and provides you with the ability to purchase and download all the HD content. I'm also accessing HD content via Timer Warner Cable's HD service, which is lacking but is slowly getting better.

I'm still a bit leery of even Blu-ray, as rumors have it, it may be the last physical format. As highspeed internet access is gaining more mainstream subscribers, understandably some believe high-def downloads are the wave of the future; and certainly Live points to this. Thus, I'm being very discriminate with my high-def purchases, focusing on purchasing only movies that I consider top-notch in visual presentation. No, I'm not going to be buying "The Bucket List" on BR, but "Iron Man" and other such top-notch visual rides would suit very well in a top-notch high def format.