Here goes, I LOVED this movie!! Only ever really played Super Street Fighter 4 and I thought I'd check this out, I'd heard rumors and seen that the casting for the two main characters was less than stellar, but it was 5 bucks!! And I might just be really weird or something, but I loved this movie for all the reasons I think everyone else hates it!
 Casting Raul Julia, an ailing Puerto Rican actor as the mad despot M. Bison!? Horrible idea, but the man made the role his own in a way I absolutely loved! Jean Claude VanDamm, the poor man's Arnold as Guile!? Minus the accent he actually would play the role pretty well I think. Ryu and Ken are both kind of Ridiculous, but everyone else was cast pretty well! I don't think they could have found a more perfect guy to play Zangief, and he has one of the most hilarious lines in the whole show. He's also my main character in Street Fighter, so I'm pretty partial to him. Vega was great, Dee Jay was awesome, and I love the big Hawaiian dude that plays E. Honda! Blanka you'll just have to see for your self :p
I also respect that they tried to make an actual plot for a game that has very little, originally it's an evil organization that's hosting a tournament, people join for their own sundry reasons. Sound familiar? *coughDeadorAlivecough* So instead they come up with their own, as follows: The fictional middle eastern/asian country of Shadaloo is in the tyrannical grip of the mad Warlord M. Bison, his dealings attract black market gun runners, and con artists (Ryu and Ken) alike. He has taken hostage workers of the Allied Nations and it's up to Colonel Guile to get them back before Bison kills them all. Chun Li is undercover as a reporter along with Balrog and E. Honda, both of whom have vendettas against Bison for some reason briefly mentioned. Many a fight and the occasional goofy scene with Nerf balls ensue, as well as a Batmanesque stealth boat. I won't give it all away but I'm sure you can guess good triumphs, and I will tell you to make sure you watch after the credits for a good laugh!
All in all, I loved this movie because of how much it made me genuinely laugh at what they'd done with it, and in a "man this is fun!" kind of way, Of course the special effects aren't going to be top notch, remember this came out the same year as Mortal Kombat, and I'd take Street Fighter over it a million times over!!