In Superman vs the Elite, the Man of Steel is confronted by new super-team who aren't afraid to use excessive and deadly force. Superman has to reevaluate if his moral code has finally been left behind by a modern era that would rather shoot first and never bother asking questions.

This is a hard movie to judge. This is the first DVD based on a single issue from the comics (Action Comics #775, "What's So Funny About Truth, Justice, and the American Way," by Joe Kelly and Doug Mahnke). For better or for worse, lots of stuff had to be expanded upon to make it fit the 74 minute run time. But, they did get Joe Kelly to come back write this adaptation, and he inserted a few details from later comics with the Elite. A big difference is that the Elite act like they want Superman to be their Number 5 member and get some heroic moments, before turning against big blue. They did managed to conserve the big battle at the end, which is what everyone is hoping for.

Sadly, the biggest problem is the animation style. In the other DC DVDs they always try to replicate the original artist's style for the animation. While Mahnke does occasionally use exaggerated proportions, most people would say he's known for a gritty ugly style. Instead they chose a rubbery, super-deformed, cartoon style, that's distracting given the serious nature of the material.

One more thing, Action Comics #775 was written in March 2001, so it was written as a reaction to Antiheroes that were prevalent during the 1990s. But in this post-9/11 adaptation, you're definitely going to feel the post-9/11, modern slant.

I can't say much about the performance. All of the Elite are great. Manchester Black sounds almost exactly how I'd imagined. Everyone else is fine, I just can't take them seriously because of the distracting character designs.

Extras on the Bluray include:

Commentary with Joe Kelly and Eddie Berganza, Witer and Editor of Action #775 receptively. It's an okay conversation.

Superman and the Moral Debate - A 17-Minute feature contemplating "justice" in the modern world.

The Elite Unbound: No Rules, No Mercy - Joe Kelly expands on the characters of the Elite, which is really helpful to get a better understanding of the film.

Alan Burnet's Top Picks from Superman the Animated Series: Brave New Metropolis (An Evil Superman) and Warrior Queen (Maxima).

Sneak Peek at Batman: The Dark Knight Returns (part 1) - A 12-minute first look at the next adaptation, Frank Miller's Batman: the Dark Knight Returns. For once they read my mind, and they're going to do it in two parts. I'm already salivating.

Digital Comic - Action Comics #775
Photos from The Dark Knight Rises
Trailers for All-Star Superman and Superman/Batman: Public Enemies

Overall, it's a good adaptation of a great comic. I don't mind the animation that much, but it CAN be very distracting. Rent it first, see what you think, before you spend your money on a movie you might not love. I give it a 4 out of 5