this film is really really cool the whole thing reeks of the late 80's vibe and the story is really engaging.  the death scenes are awesome (as always) and freddy is still hilarious.  also there's a dog that urinates fire. seriously homie, how is that not crucial braw?

ok so kristen is out of the mental institution and so are jimmy and kincaid.  the threat of freddy is gone (or so it seems), and all is well with kristen she has new friends who are introduced in this movie (most importantly alice and her new boyfriend doug).  but for some reason kristen is drawn to freddy's dream lair much to the dismay of joey and kincaid who are constantly being pulled into kristen's dreams because she is scared, and so it seems with good reason.  that reason being freddy's back and hungry for more teenage souls (awwww poop).  in this installment of the nightmare on elm street seriese the torch is passed, for kristen joey and kincaid all fall victim to freddy[totally destroying nightmare on elm street 3's legacy :*( ]. but not before kristen can pull her new friend alice into her dream, and give her the gift of being able to pull people into her dreams with a little added bonus.  will alice be able to find a way to vanquish freddy once and for all?

this is my favorite in the series if not simply because it has the only good dramarama song on the soundtrack(i'll give you candy, give you diamonds, give you pills, i'll give you anything you want hundred dollar bills. you know you wanna sing along everytime you hear it)  then because i wanted to be just like alice's big brother up until like a few weeks ago(he's such a macho hunk with awesome hair).  there's kung fu, girls lifting weights and turning into bugs, and a nerdy girl with asthma that gets totally destroyed in the face(who doesn't wanted to see that?).  it's got all the dialogue you thought was the bees knees when you where a kid, a killer soundtrack, and some pretty good special effects that still hold decently strong even today.  for any fan of the series this is a must have because seriously this movie owns you when you buy not the other way around.