Though Friday the 13th is definitely not the first slasher movie, the franchise is one of the most popular and easily recognizable in the genre even among non-fans, and it spawned leagues of imitators.  The slasher genre is usually on the business end of derision from critics, and perhaps for good reason; all too often the characters are wooden, poorly acted and undeveloped, simply there to be slaughtered by whomever the madman villain in the film is.  But if you're here reading this, you couldn't care less about some snooty critic's opinion, right?

Friday the 13th is, of course, the first entry in this impossibly long series, and it's probably the best of the bunch.  It establishes the camp setting that many films in this series feature, where a young boy supposedly drowned years ago while negligent counselors were too busy fooling around to take heed.  Murders followed, and the camp was shuttered for years...until now, where a group of new young counselors decide to reopen what has been dubbed as "Camp Blood" by the locals.  Of course, the horny teens are a bit more interested in sex than prepping the camp for the arrival of the kids, and that turns out to be a bad idea, as they are targeted by an unseen killer.

I won't give away the identity of the culprit here, but the film does a good job at keeping the killer in the shadows, and for me that's a definite positive.  The kills, for the time, were pretty impressive, and the mysterious murderer uses a variety of lethal weapons to pick off the victims; also of note is how the killer isn't made into the 'hero', as this franchise and many others would later become guilty of, and the teens are sympathetic enough that we hope they'll make it out of the nightmare alive.  The now infamous ki ki ki, ma ma ma theme debuts here as well, and it does a fine job of creating tingling suspense when the villain lurks and stalks the victims.

Though other entries in this genre (Halloween, Nightmare on Elm Street, etc) are better films, this one is quite good in it's own right.  It definitely won't change your opinion of slasher films if you aren't already a fan, and after leagues of imitators it may not seem as strong as it may have at one time, but in my book it's worthy of the classic status it enjoys.