Still in awe from the international hit, Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon? Well, Iron Monkey will definetly satisfy those looking for a less artsy, more action-laden flick.

Yuen Wo Ping, the fight choreographer for CTHD, struts his stuff creating the martial-arts mayhem in this film as well. The high-flying acrobatics (with some help from wires), the flurry of kicks and punches, and exaggerated impacts all help make the scenes appear as if it were a dance. This isn't to say the characters are prancing and flying around everywhere all the time, but rather, these elements are used to support and build upon the base hardcore kung-fu combat. Even if you're geared toward more physical, realistic fights (ala Ong Bak), you can't deny the certain charm of Iron Monkey. I consider myself a slight detractor from "wirefu", but it's impossible NOT to be in awe of the masterfully-concocted mysticism of Yuen's fight scenes. The numerous battles are all somewhat different from each other, keeping the action alive and fresh throughout. Creativity really shines. Like all good kung-fu movies, Iron Monkey provides memorable fights that you'll even remember down the road. So sit back and be sure to absorb the beauty of Yuen's work.

Ok, enough of my babbling about the action. As you can all see, I love the fights. However, it's time to move on to other aspects of the movie. You can read the summary from almost any other review, so I won't bother with that. It is in the story that one can make the argument CTHD and IM are two completely different movies. CTHD uses action to support and enhance the wonderful plot-driven movie, whereas IM uses a story to bring you from one fantastic fight to another. Don't get me wrong...for a kung-fu flick, the story is developed alot better than what's normally adequate. Although providing some history for the characters is a nice touch, it's hardly inspected thoroughly.

The actors make the story work. Each person is casted convincingly. The young girl who played the part of Wong Fei Hung has serious skill! I also loved the major bad-guy. He brings back memories from the classic, old-school kung-fu flicks. Embodying a powerful arrogance, an elaborate costume, the whimsical 'stache and beard, and (most importantly) the Buddha Fist(!), Yee Kwan Yan makes for one kick-ass villain.

The only things that keep this movie from a perfect score are trivial matters. I feel the wire-effects were abit overdone in the earlier parts of the movie (although it was somewhat fitting to go along with the light-hearted mood during the beginning). However, in defense, the fights do heat up as the movie progresses. Another problem is the aforementioned weak history guide to the characters. In defense yet again, the movie still provided more plot substance than what kung fu flicks are normally creditted with.

Iron Monkey is not as artful and elaborate as Crouching Tiger, but the film never aims to be. It was made to be an action packed kung-fu movie, which it definetly delivers in spades. The names Donnie Yen and Yuen Wo Ping should be reason alone to get you on the couch, glued to the TV.

NOTE: Movie was viewed with Chinese dialogue/English subtitles.