This Ultimate Edition could have been the definitive edition, had it been produced a little differently.

First, with the exception of the two new Sharon Stone items, Intro and Commentary, it is the same as the "IcePick" Unrated Director's Cut that came out some years ago.  When I mean "IcePick", I'm talking about the release that came in the clear plastic case with a little bonus metal icepick.

Second, the movie's video and audio quality are also the same as that IcePick version.  Which means passable, but not great.

This is where my biggest gripe with this item is located.  The video and audio quality.

What would have made this a truly "Ultimate" Edition would have been if they had made it a 2-disc edition, one disc with only the movie, and the other all the bonus features.  Many current releases do it this way.

As it stands, a one-disc version of a movie that is slightly over two hours (2 hours 8 minutes more exact) along with all the bonus material means that the video bitrate of the movie is limited to no more than an average of 5.0 Mbps.

A 2 hour movie can be encoded at 9.8 Mbps (almost the theoretical maximum) if placed entirely on a DVD-9 RSDL disc.

The difference between 9.8 Mbps and 5.0 Mbps is huge, as long as the source material is high enough quality to take advantage.  Since this edition says "newly remastered widescreen version" I would think the original video quality would be such.

In addition, we are still stuck with Dolby Digital 5.1 448 Kbps for the audio.  But with the extra storage that comes with a two-disc edition, they could have increased the audio quality to DD-EX 6.1 and DTS 6.1 formats.

Had they done that with this "Ultimate" edition, making it a two-disc extravaganza and increased the video and audio bitrates, this would have truly been the final, must-own version of this film.

So therefore, if you already have an Unrated Director's Cut version of this film, there is no need to purchase this "Ultimate" edition, unless you absolutely have to have those two extra Sharon Stone features.  The movie itself is the exact same material.