It's pretty common place these days that professional reviewers have dubbed anything that combines mass amounts of gore, killers, and traps to be dubbed torture porn. needless to say there are quite a few movie goers, much like myself, who enjoy searching for new things to watch and go "oooooooh.....$H1T!!!!! thas nasty!"
I heard about The Collector from [...], a movie review site that shines admirably on the horror movie genre and most of it's sub genres...torture porn being one of many. Now i had already read the review and it seemed like a very interesting flick to check out. Noted were the people from the first Saw film, which had my attention. Now mind you i think Saw was good up to part 3 (haven't seen 6 yet) so i was hoping for some freshness, much like the original Saw had brought some time ago.
The Collector had indeed filled my hope. I'm not going to fill you in with the plot since many people have already done that but i'll touch on the things most horror lovers ponder on. Yes, there was a monster amount of blood and gore. the whole trip wire thing that The Collector used throughout the house to trigger his "homemade traps" was very cool. I use home made very vaguely because some are extremely creative and others like the bear trap room seemed to be put there just to make you wince. The one thing that kinda got to me was how the repair man was thinking for all of two minutes and next thing you know everything...EVERYTHING is rigged and all the windows are boarded up. Either the Collector has people working for him or he is the bastard child of the Flash and Leatherface. There isnt much nudity in this movie, but that isnt to say that the amazingly beautiful Madeline Zima is nothing to look at. Her five minutes of tease are ample enough to keep the smiles gleaming. Much like any other Torture Porn movie this gem isnt very scary...it's more horror in the sense of how the hell someone could or would want to do something like this. It's that in your face OMFGWTF was that type of horror.
I don't think The Collector should be taken as a Saw "look alike" because it ISNT. the Jigsaw Killer used industrial tools and things that when put together generally make someone go "oooooh. ouch." The Collector however used general household stuff (two rooms excluded, youll know what i mean when you see them) to begin his reign of terror upon unsuspecting households. The movie is not for everyone, but for those who want something interesting instead of teeny bobber revivals and gradually dying horror icons (vampires = twilight....damn shame. and there is a werewolf one coming out to, more info on that at [...]), The Collector is definitely worth checking into.