I was desperate for something to watch over the holiday weekend and pickings were mighty slim and then I stumbled across Rat Race.  
Producer/Director Jerry Zucker, the guy that brought us classic comidies like Aiplane, Top Secret, and The Naked Gun, remake of the classic film It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World.  The set up is simple enough John Cleese plays a wealthy Las Vegas Hotel owner who offers six down on their luck hotel guests a chance to take part in the opportunity of a lifetime. They all have the chance to win two million dollars hidden in a bus terminal hundreds of miles away in New Mexico all they have to do is be the first contestant there to claim the prize.  
Rat Race isn't original, it isn't even believable but it keeps coming up with fun and outrageous situations and consequences for the characters involved.  Zucker proved along time ago that if you have a non stop barrage of jokes, one-liners and sight gags something will eventually make you laugh.  And I did laugh too.  
All of the characters are desperate, cynical and very quirky and they all manage to somehow get involved in some of the most bizarre situations imaginable. 
John Lovitz is hilarious as he and his family decide to make a brief stop at the Barbie museum, the Klaus Barbie museum. While learning about Barbie's ballroom dancing achievements their mini-van is sabotaged by their race competitors the Cody brothers, Blaine and Duane.  The desperate family does the only reasonable thing, they steal Hitler's personal car from the museum.  
I loved Whoopie Goldberg's encounter with roadside squirrel merchant Kathy Bates.  
Cuba Gooding Jr. Shows he can do comedy when he hijacks a bus full of Lucille ball impersonators on their way to a convention.  
Rowan Atkinson as a narcoleptic Italian immigrant is priceless
The only complaint I had was the ending which just didn't fit the synical and sensless feel of the rest of the movie.  The last fifteen minutes had all the appearances of a last minute re-shoot.  The same people who drugged their children, played catch with transplant organs, stole cars, busses and hot air balloons all come together at the end for a world wide group hug.  The ending presented should have felt satisfying but it didn't.
All in all I loved the movie but when I next watch it I will shut it off before the final scene.