The Game is better than that.  Written by John Brancato and Michael Ferris and directed by David Fincher, of the recent and creepy-Catholic inspired Seven, The Game is an entirely orthodox vision of a man who is forced - by  his own choices - to his own breaking point, which is the only point that  will release him from the trap his life has become. Without the religious  jargon as its delimiters, The Game nevertheless powerfully portrays the  entire human drama of sin, confession, penance, absolution, forgiveness,  oh, and crucifixion and resurrection - all in just over two hours.  The  Game is equal parts Adam, Cain, Abel, Jonah and Lazarus all rolled into one  of the most taught psychological thrillers that I've seen.  Some of the  film's most beautiful moments are the deft touches that seem incidental at  first blush, but nevertheless point to the underlying allegory:  first  communion, a statuette of the Virgin Mary, a reference to the book of John,  and not one, but two resurrection scenes unlike anything you've ever  seen.
If only Walker Percy were still alive!  If writers Brancato and  Ferris aren't Walker Percy fans I'll eat my foot.  The author of The  Moviegoer would recognize his ideas unmistakably by the film's exquisite  rendering of a man so lost in the cosmos that he isn't even aware of his  despair. The question that Walker Percy spent his entire life asking - How  do you speak to a man sensibly about ultimate truth in a Christ-haunted and  Christ-forgetting culture?  -- is not only truthfully but beautifully  answered by The Game. Nicholas Van Orton is the man who has everything, and  thus values nothing.  As an insanely successful control-freak investment  banker who disdains all those who should be closest to him, Van Orton is at  once, as Percy puts it, "both the hero and ******* of the  cosmos."  His wealth and power have sated him to the point of extreme  boredom, and it is clear that all viable re-entry points have either  already been attempted or are simply too base for a man of his stature.  What are the conditions under which such a man could actually see the  Parthenon and not be bored, or in this case, the Golden Gate Bridge?  In  Van Orton's case, it takes the work of Consumer Recreation Services, a gift  that Van Orton receives from his younger brother for his 48th birthday --  the age at which his father before him (like another father and son in  another Percy novel) has committed suicide.  
Van Orton is mildly amused  by his brother's gift, and one day finds himself coincidentally in their  new San Francisco office, so he decides to inquire.  Here he meets an  administrator named Feingold who tempts him into trying the game with the  same logic that Satan used on Eve:  first, admit that you're interested;  it's a no-risk obligation.  Van Orton then fills out a questionnaire that  sounds more like a confessional transcription than an application to a  recreational service:  I sometimes hurt small animals,  I feel guilty when  masturbating, etc.
But CRS might as well stand for Character Redemption  Services, because the company and its omniscient database immediately  begins pursuing Van Orton like some deranged hound of heaven on steroids,  backing him up against the wall of his greeds, gluttonies and lusts for  what reason neither we nor Van Orton know.  Initially, Van Orton is  intrigued by the attention; he smiles as he walks into the airport and  realizes, with the shock of discovery, that every exchange, glance and  action is imbued with tremendous potential significance.  He is returned to  that state of innocent childhood belief that around each corner the scene  has been constructed just prior to his arrival and will collapse just after  his departure.  But he doesn't know how far it goes, where it starts and  ends, and why.  Like life, he is only armed with the one clue that the  purpose of the game is to discover the purpose of the game.
CRS gives Van  Orton the full Job treatment:  as his security, safety, and luxury are all  pulled out from under him with astonishing speed, he is forced to confront  the bankruptcy of his own soul and the fragility of his own life.  What he  doesn't know, and nor do we until the end, is that he has his own personal  Beatrice guiding him through the underworld his life has become, and  passively but definitively leading his action every misstep of the way.  The waitress Christine is almost always with him, and there are little  clues here and there, that she is in on it, such as when she mutters to  herself, "Watch out for boards and nails, there should be a fire  escape" as she leads Van Orton through the second floor of an  abandoned building before jumping into the garbage cans in the alley below.  One of the nice touches comes at the end when we learn that his guide's  real name is not Christine, but Clare, who happens to be the patron saint  of television, a perfect choice for a story so completely layered and  selectively filtered.
From the allegorical point of view, The Game's  great strength is in its depiction of the relationship between free will  and original sin.  With CRS in place of God, Van Orton is placed into  situations where by varying degrees he is or is not allowed to exercise his  controlling tendencies.  When Van Orton is least curious about CRS, they  are casually there in the form of a bum asking for money or a toilet stall  occupant whose run out of toilet paper.  By the film's end, when Van Orton  believes he has regained his control, he is actually playing as tightly and  closely to the CRS script as is possible.  The climactic scene has Van  Orton discovering that this is his crime, and that he cannot actually have  control.  Facing the mirror of his own soul, Van Orton judges and condemns  himself to death, choosing the inheritance of his father's and  grandfather's death. In the most incredible scene of  free-will-as-God's-destiny ever played, Van Orton jumps to his death and  lands perfectly inside the circled X that CRS has scripted for his game.  Van Orton falls, quite literally, of his own choosing, and lands squarely  in the arms of his savior.  After reviving him and checking for cuts, one  of the medics says, "It's always quite a fall." At the film's  conclusion, Feingold congratulates Van Orton saying, "It's a good  thing you jumped, because if you didn't I was supposed to push  you."
Ultimately, The Game pulls off in allegory what the majority  of modern cinema has failed to do convincingly or persuasively for as long  as I've been alive. The Game, as one of the CRS decoys says to Van Orton  early on, is all about John 9:25 -  "Whereas once I was blind, now I  can see."  The Game delivers the old eternal truth in the wrappings of  a new mystery.  Without a single preachy cliche, without any embarrassment  or camp, The Game forces Van Orton and the viewer to recognize the most  fundamental paradox of the Christian faith:  he who would save his life  must first lose it.