5 stars and 1000 words aren't enough to tell you how great this movie is!  "The Hunchback of Notre Dame" is truly Disney's greatest triumph.  It has everything: the most spetacular animation, the strongest characters,  the most complex story, and the best music. Okay, so it may not be  appropriate for little kids, big deal. When was the last time you heard a  Disney employee say they were making a movie for little kids, anyway? Think  about it. 
Just the movie's animation is enough of a reason to give it  five stars. Almost everything, from the statues around the cathedral, to  the city errupting in flames, to a sunset seen from Notre Dame's roof, to  the church's interior, is absolutly astonishing. It invites you to just  jump into the screen and visit 15th century Paris, and the trip is a  stunning feast for the eyes. I can't believe it's all on paper and/or  computer screen.
Living in this world are some of Disney's strongest  characters (did I mention that already?). The audience can truly root for  the three heros. Quasimodo is Disney's best guy, plain and simple. His goal  starts out simple enough: he wants a day of freedom. However, it becomes  far more complex after he has fallen in love. It is then when he shows the  courage to give his all for another, and the strengh to sacrifice his  happiness for hers. Oh gosh, when he sings the heartbreaking "Heaven's  Light" about his love for Esmeralda, and the possobility that she  might love him back, you will be absolutly moved. Then when the song  is  repeated as he watches Esmeralda and Phoebus share a passionate kiss, you  may very well cry. As for Esmeralda, she is one of Disney's most intruiging  heroines. She never hesitates to stand up for what's right, and never  hesitates to help someone in need (to say nothing that she never hestitates  to kick soldiers.)However, her true personality is revealed in an  absolutely beautiful scene where she sings "God Help The  Outcasts," a wonderful prayer of hope and selflessness. I still get  choked up whenever I hear that song. The only thing about Esmeralda that I  really don't understand is why she prefers Phoebus to Quasimodo (I don't  think anyone really wants to say "Well he's got a straight back! So of  course she prefers him!") As for Phoebus, he (thankfully) got the  expected Disney makeover from the wicked guy in the book to a likable  soldier with a heart and a conscience. I give the guy thumbs up just for  that, but there's more. He refuses an order to kill innocent people, almost  getting his head cut off in the process, but setting a positive example for  today's boys who might become tomorrow's soldiers (and I desperatly hope  tomorrow's soldiers will have better consciences than today's.)
I won't  repeat what other reviewers said about Frollo, but I will say that he is  Disney's most intruiging villian. Deep down, he knows what he's doing is  wrong, but he can't face it, so he struggles to convince himself that what  he's doing is right. Isn't that how most people will carry out wicked  deeds? Oh, and when Frollo sings "Hellfire," about his burning  desire for Esmeralda, shivers go down your spine. No, really. 
Alan  Menken outdid himself with the music for this film. From the spellbinding  opening song "Bells of Notre Dame" to the closing credits ballad  "Someday," the songs are top-notch, and the score adds a layer of  depth to the movie (you'll see what I mean if you read what the Latin  lyrics mean in the booklet that comes with the soundtrack.) I still can't  believe the Oscar people picked "That Thing You Do" over  "Someday" for a Best Song nomination. For that matter, I can't  believe HUNCHBACK failed to get a Best Picture slot. "Beauty and the  Beast" was nominated, but not this! Sometimes I don't know what those  guys are thinking.
I'd like to go on like this, but I'm running out of  space. Trust me, this movie is wonderful. By the time it reaches it's  uplifting ending, you'll have witnessed a glorious landmark in Disney  history, and for that matter, movie history.