On those occasions when I'm asked to name my all-time favorite film, my reply of "Conan the Barbarian" is usually greeted by a wry smile and something like, "No I'm serious, what is really your all-time  favorite?"  Well, it really is.  The combination of casting, high  production values, cinematography, and above all scoring, combine to do  what no other film of this genre has done before or since - capture the  other-worldly spirit of adventure fantasy.
In his Conan series, the  author Robert E. Howard created an epic hero who is brooding,  pathologically violent, and deeply troubled.  His melancholy and ferocity  are not the symptoms of psychosis however, but appropriate manifestations  of his very nature - he is pagan and barbarian and he has been profoundly  wronged.  Conan is the stuff of adolescent male fantasy, an elemental  physical and sexual juggernaut.  To his enemies he is implacable Death,  relentless and inevitable.  To women he is the irresistible ideal or rather  what boys without experience imagine it to be.  The lost "Hyborean  Age" that Howard created for his hero is a world in which Nietzsche or  a nineteenth century social Darwinist would have been comfortable, a world  as yet untroubled by the progeny of Abraham or the gentle carpenter of  Galilee.
Conan and his world are literally unbelievable.  Howard's skill  in prose at making them otherwise is rare, but what John Milius and company  did on screen is far rarer.  The writer can count on the reader's  imagination, unconstrained by time, budgets, or physics, to create and  sustain the setting for a well-crafted story.  The filmmaker, however, has  no such luxury, he or she must work with a difficult and unforgiving  physical medium all the while hounded by accountants.  Jaded audiences and  malevolent critics will seek and find every shortcut, every scene that  should have been re-shot, and every line that could have been better.  What  Milius did was not perfect, but it was good enough.  The synergy between  cast, setting, staging, and score is truly astonishing.
Casting: In 1982,  Arnold Schwarzenegger was new to most of us.  He was preternaturally huge,  his face oddly expressive, and his guttural accent suggested dark, Teutonic  power.  Arnold was not and is not a great actor and though he may be  inappropriate for many roles, he was and is my Conan - the one in my head.  The rest of the casting is more than adequate with good performances by  James Earl Jones and Max Von Sydow.
Setting: Well-crafted and believable  sets placed against evocatively bleak Spanish and Canadian landscapes- no  shortcuts here, the budget was big enough to do it right.
Staging: I saw  Schwarzenegger interviewed some years back and was surprised to hear him  say that he "hated" playing Conan.  He complained that the  director (Milius) insisted that he treat the role seriously and this made  for an unpleasant filming experience.  The actor would have preferred a  more light-hearted approach.  Sorry Arnold, had you gotten your way the  film would have been irretrievably diminished.  Everything in this movie is  played for real - no sidelong glances to let the audience in on the joke,  no valley girl slang, everything strictly Hyborean.  The swordplay is not  the polite fencing of a thirties matinee idol nor the inept blundering of a  spaghetti Hercules.  Every nerve and sinew of these athletic protagonists  is bent to delivering crushing blows, meant to be fatal, and we are  permitted to see that they are.
Score: Basil Poledouris' score is quite  literally the best original film music I have ever heard.  Without it, this  movie would have been only adequate.  It ties everything together.  When  Conan has left his Valeria to search for Thusla Doom and is truly alone, a  distant figure on horseback set against the backdrop of arid wilderness, we  hear his emptiness.  When he and his companions steal into Doom's lair to  recover the Princess, we hear the sybaritic decadence of the snake cult.  And when Conan squares off against Doom's chief (and monstrously Aryan)  henchmen, we hear the clash and clang of Thor's titanic hammer.
This is  great movie making.  You may think the genre ridiculous or worse but never  has the craft served its subject so well.