This is the last Friday the 13th showing Jason getting resurrected- by an anchor scraping across an oddly active underwater cable powering the lights of the now ambandoned Camp Crystal Lake (would you send your kids there again after such a infamous history?). He gets a new, if not rather convient, hockey mask and harpoons both ...teens on the small boat before he climbs aboard a luxery liner full of highschool seniors- that are too old and too dumb to be in highschool- and successfully kills several of them with the captain (who plays as Admiral Paris in Star Trek Voyager) with his new found ability to teleport short distances, before sinking the ship with all but the lucky few on a life boat on it's way to New York City.
Instead of enjoying the sights as their vacation dictates, New York's newest arrivals gets jumped by ... addicted gang bangers and end up getting separated and killed when Jason also manages to swim all the way there.  Who can forget when Julius gets his block nocked off after a brief fight on a roof top and when Principal McCollough (Richter oddly was also was on a Star Trek episode, playing his arrogant self) was thrown out of a window and plunged head first in a drum of toxic sewage.
The one thing that bothered me is the plot hole:  Renny, who's uncle is the aformentioned principal, has a memory of young Jason holding her down in Crystal Lake as a little girl, causing delusions and a fear of water.  Considering that Jason was a boy when he drowned in 1957, and chronologically, this takes place in the late 90's (Part I took place in 1979... Part II, III, IV in a one week period in 1984... Part V five to seven years later... Part VI a couple years later... Part VII a few weeks? months?, whatever...), this must make her a very old highschool student.
Granted that Jason is nice and slimey, he looks a little more held together then he did in Part VII- no exposed spine and kneecaps that made Jason look cool in the last one.  
....
Look on the bright side, it was better than Part V.