This wonderful saga is without a doubt my alltime favourite movie, It is on the grand scale of Gone With the Wind although I think, a little easier to relate to.  The three main stars offer their finest performance, in my opinion. Right down to the smallest part - every actor is impeccable in their depiction - just look at the expression on the Negro Manservant in Maryland - one can read his mind while watching his glances. The tiniest role players are gems in Giant. Viewers must concentrate carefully on every single scene so as not to miss a single detail. As it is over three hours long, an intermission might be preferred, rather than missing any moments as all are crucial. The version I have was recorded off television during a showing in the 1980's and I have now worn it out - so am thankfully able to obtain a new one through Amazon.  I have seen this Movie many times but it always has an incredible impact. Never was Elizabeth Taylor more breath-takingly beautiful or Rock Hudson more tall, dark &amp; handsome !! James Dean's chiseled features and mumbling speech and every movement he makes totally portray the resentful rebel to the hilt. I found the sage of their disappointment with their children's choices in life interesting. Those who also find this should not miss another movie where this occurs - that is "Splendour in the Grass" starring Natalie Wood and introducing Warren Beatty. It has this similar theme but with much more tragic results as the parents force their children into ultimately ruining their lives. I think that four stars from Giant are also in Rebel Without A Cause. Dean, Hopper, Mineo and the other I think is the lady who plays young Jordan's wife. Is she Pilar del Rey ??? Anyway, this movie should not be missed. One can smell the greenness of the Maryland pasture and then taste the dust of Texas. It is an unforgettable saga and I have introduced it to many other people who have been absolutely transfixed. Can hardly wait for my new tape to arrive - will be showing it to everyone I know !! It is an incredible GIANT of a movie in every sense !!