Like many folks here, I saw this one when I was very young--right after second grade, I think. By the time it came to the theater in my little rural hometown a year after its release, Julie Andrews had already won an Oscar for her work as the title character.  Not that that mattered.  To the kids in my class at school, this was the hot, must-see movie of that summer--the way "Star Wars" would be in the next decade.  I can still remember laughing over Dick Van Dyke tap-dancing with the penguins and crying during the "Bird Woman" song (which was as much social commentary as a sentimental tune about our feathered friends). I became a fan of Dick Van Dyke's show after this--he basically won my heart as Bert--the jack-of-all-trades special friend to Mary and the Banks' children.  For the rest of that summer, man, I WAS Mary Poppins.  My mom bought me a record of all the songs, I used her old Avon sample case as my carpetbag, and I acted out the movie every day. If VCRs and DVDs had been everyday household items then, I would have asked for "Mary Poppins" for Christmas. (It would have been worn out by Easter, most likely!)
As happens to children almost overnight, my interests changed over the next year and I sort of got over my fixation with Mary, Bert, et. al.  After all, Julie Andrews and Dick Van Dyke went on to other things after that, so why not me?  
And then in the 90s, Disney re-released "Mary Poppins" as a video.  I bought it for my daughter (or at least that was the excuse I gave my husband).  Though she was too young to understand everything in the movie--just as I was the first time I saw it--she, too, loved "Mary Poppity" as she called it.  We must have played it at least 3 times a week during the first summer we had it, while living in temporary housing and waiting for our house to be built.  She, too, loves to act this one out and to sing the songs for hours on end.  The apple does not fall far from the tree, I guess.
As for me. . .it's all I remembered it to be, and then some. For starters, the music. . .what was missing from the old record I had were the overture, underscores, and closing score--they were beautifully put together.  And the little details are delightful, too.  Among them:  Mrs. Banks, who is a feminist (at least when Mr. Banks isn't around) wears bloomers--and later in the movie, we discover Mary Poppins does, too.  (don't blink, or you'll miss seeing them)  The relationship between Mary and Bert. . .as a child I thought they were probably a couple but never had time to see each other because of their work.  Now?  I think they would be a couple if they got a lucky break.  Let's face it--she's a nanny and he's a lower-level tradesman.  Even if they did get married,  in 1910, the realities of British society were such that if you weren't part of the gentry, you worked for a living, and changing your "class" or status didn't happen.  A shame, because their characters obviously love children very much.  So they do the next best thing--work together as a team to bring happiness to British middle-class homes--mainly by shaking up the parents.  Mary was no ordinary nanny, but Bert made her an even better one--he was the idea man, and she handled the implementation. 
And therein is the secret:  this movie was not as much about Mary, Bert, and the kids as it is about Mary, Bert, and Mr. and Mrs. Banks.  It's when Mr. Banks realizes that his children don't need a nanny to be happy--they just need their parents to love them and give them their attention--that he also becomes the man that the Bank needs.  The scene between Bert and Mr. Banks at the house is one of the best in the movie.  
As for the ending?  When I was a child, I didn't understand it.  Now, as an adult, I do.  The mission was accomplished, and it was time to move on.  As one of the main characters said, all was as it should be.
So is this movie.  Enjoy it with your own daughter. . .