If you never got to see Titus on Fox, you really missed out. Granted you have to be just a little bent to really enjoy it. But if you came from a strange, messed up family, you will feel like your at home in the Titus household.  With great acting, hilarous excentricities in the characters, and the best flashback scenes ever to be written, Titus was the best sitcom I've ever seen.

My only regret is there isn't more of it. Hopefully we will get season 3 soon as well. The great thing about Titus was that its about family values. It shows daily American life that no one else has the balls to show on TV. These people love each other, no matter how screwed up they are, and many times they hurt each other. And that's real. Everything from how women shouldn't put up with being abused, dealing with mental illness, raising your kids correctly, to gay rights in season three. (You have to love Chris Titus comparing people who just don't like gays, or blacks or anybody for no good reason to Nazis. It was one of the boldest statements about individual liberties ever see on TV and nobody seemed to notice it.)It was a character driven comedy. When was the last time we had a comedy where someone almost died, and we actually cared?

To top it off, you could never get a better character than Stacey Keach. The man is an amazing actor, and he really steals the show sometimes, with no effort at all. As if the we didn't love him in Mike Hammer shows, in this one he's the drunk, womanizing father that every woman would like to have at least one night with.  Chris Titus does an AMAZING job for a first time actor. I guess its easier when you are doing your one life, but still one of the best guys I've seen on TV in years.

I bought this the week it was released. If you ever got a chance to watch Titus, you know this is one of the only TV comedies worth buying on DVD. If you didnt, at least get it from netflicks and give it a shot. I assure you, you will be buying it after the first disk is over!  Though i caution you, sitting down and watching season 1 and 2 all at once may lead to broken ribs. You will laugh harder than at any other show on TV!