Light, and whimsical, half mystery and half romance, the strangely named P.S. is probably most notable for highlighting the urgent chemistry between Laura Linney and Topher Grace. Both bring a wonderful mixture of vulnerability and innocence to their roles, and their intimate moments have a startling realism, and honesty that's quite rare in cinema these days.

Having said that P.S. is a rather commonplace and ordinary movie, with some plot developments involving the secondary characters that don't quite have the ring of truth and good actors that are terribly underused. It's a pleasant enough film, but most viewers will walk away with the realization that they haven't seeing anything that particularly insightful or memorable.

There's no doubt that Linney gives an absolutely compelling performance, and she totally nails the portrayal of a frustrated, and lonely thirty-something woman who is full of pent-up regret and bitterness after just coming out of a divorce. She plays Louise Harrington, a Columbia University admissions officer. Louise lost her first true love in a car accident, and has just recently been divorced from Peter (Gabriel Byrne), her husband of ten years. Although best friends, they have a kind of shaky, disparate relationship that is built on confidence, but also hints at betrayal.

One day F. Scott Feinstadt (Topher Grace), an 18-year-old potential student, walks into Louise's office. Scott looks, sounds, and paints like Louise's long dead boyfriend. She reels from a mixture of shock, attraction and intrigue, becoming quite predatory as she quickly seduces him. Is this new Scott pure coincidence or is there something supernatural involved? As they get to know each other, Louise is reawakened both sexually and emotionally, until her best friend Missy (Marcia Gay Harden) arrives on the scene to try to sabotage the relationship.

The dynamic between Linney and Grace, is the main reason to watch this movie. Their dialogue is natural, smart and snappy and the best scene is when she seduces him after spontaneously inviting him back to her apartment. There's a great mixture of inexperienced urgency, and clumsy fumbling, which comes across as awkwardly endearing, gawkily charming, and also quite funny. The subplot, however, involving Peter's dark secret comes across as contrived and doesn't really go anywhere. Paul Rudd, as Louise's brother, is very good, but his scenes are too short, and his character is wasted.

The themes of loss and grief are generally well presented. And Louise's journey towards facing, and ultimately exorcising, the ghosts of the past is sensitively and thoughtfully developed. Director and co- screenwriter Dylan Kidd adapts Helen Schulman's novel with a delicate and heartfelt touch. But the standout is definitely Laura Linney - her mixture of sexual vulnerability, brashness and wavering cynicism make her plight a true triumph and victory of the heart. Mike Leonard February 05.