I went to see this movie with my two friends becuase we are animal lovers, and we really love horses. I expected the movie to be cute, but more of a kid's movie; I was wrong! This is NOT just another kiddie animation flick. In fact, there was a little girl in the seat next to me who was probably 3 years old, and throughout the entire movie, all she did was ask her grandmother tons and TONS of questions. I doubt that she truely understood even a fourth of the movie. I also heard some kids crying throughout it, like they wanted to go home. But my friends and I LOVED it! Spirit has gorgeous animation, great characters, great plot, and wonderful music. In fact, I own the soundtrack, and am listening to is as I type this. One thing I especially liked, and was EXTREMELY greatful for, about Spirit is that the horses don't talk! THANK YOU DREAMWORKS! I am sick to DEATH of all these talking Disney dogs, cats, snakes, monkies, and all the other various talking animals. That becomes VERY old! This film was more natural, using natural horse sounds and body language. It was NOT boring! There was always some action to draw you in. The animation, as I said before, was GORGEOUS! Breathtaking! A masterpiece. In the opening scene, I was fighting back tears as they played the main theme and showed the horses running wild and free exactly as all horse should be! Oooooh it was beautious. Oh, yes, and the music is great. The lyrics are beautiful and have alot of symbolism and meaning. The instrumental is brilliant and emotional as well. Well now, I think i have typed enough, though there is no way to truely express how enchanting, wonderous, not to mention beautious Spirit is! GO SEE IT! I'm sure you will be pleased, as I was. I have only seen it once, and I deffinately plan on seeing it again, and owning it when it comes out on video and DVD. Just keep in mind that this isn't really such a kid's movie, so i would reccomend it only for children over 8 or 9 years of age. It does have a few intense moments that small children might find to be scarey. But all in all, I absolutely LOVED this movie!