I previously owned the 2000 ADV DVD of "Destroy All Monsters," which I understand is essentially the same as or very similar to the 50th anniversary release. There is no contest between this release and the ADV disc. The ADV disc was atrociously bad, resembling a rip from an SD TV with a home DVD-recorder.

DAM on Blu-Ray is a world of improvement. Aside from the multiple audio tracks, which greatly enhance the film, the Blu-Ray transfer is at times stunning. There is absolutely no comparison between this disc and any previous transfer of DAM that I've seen. Although there are imperfections, this is a welcome release. This transfer is, in some ways, comparable to the Blu-Ray Gojira release from Classic Media (the only other Godzilla Blu currently available with English subtitles or audio), which was generally sharper and more notably high definition, but which was also uneven.

No information was provided on how the remastering was performed, but I'm going to take a guess that multiple prints were used with the best of an imperfect bunch selected for any given scene. You can see the quality vary at times, even within a scene. One moment, the picture will be crisp and bright, then the color and light will fade somewhat. Impressively, I didn't spot a scratch or speck of dust throughout the film.

Additionally, it's obvious at times that the problem lies with the source and that even a pristine negative would likely still have issues. For instance, the Rodin flying scenes are almost all grainy, either due to how they were filmed or possibly because of the use of lower quality stock footage in the original cut.

Unfortunately, the best quality comes with well-lit interior scenes of scientists standing around. The monsters are often (but not always) less crisp and less saturated with color. Occasionally, however, they pop and the contrast between the good and not-so-good scenes is striking. If the whole movie was that sharp, I'd give it an unreserved five stars. As it is, I'm grateful for the improvement and not much inclined to nitpick. Put your TV on the default "Vivid" setting for the best results.

For those who know Godzilla, you basically know what you're getting as far as the movie itself, one of the better Showa films and featuring the widest array of monsters from that era (even Varan the Unbelievable has a brief cameo). The human part of the story is subpar for the era, the monster part is a bit above par. Personally, DAM is not one of my top five from the Showa era, but it's an enjoyable romp nevertheless.

When I was inquiring about Godzilla movies on Blu-Ray last year, the guy at my local store pointed out that Blu might not be kind to the effects. Now that I've seen it, I would say it alternates between enhancing the effects and detracting. On the one hand, you can see the incredible artisanal detail that went into many of the miniatures. On the other hand, you can sometimes become acutely aware that a building is cardboard or a model is plastic. Godzilla fans are accustomed to this kind of thing, so it's not a big problem if your expectations are realistic.

Audio options include two different English dubs and the original Japanese. The 5.1 audio mix on the Japanese version was nothing special and didn't come off much differently .

Overall, I'm thrilled with the upgrade, even with the relatively minor complaints. It's not as sharp as a typical Blu-Ray release but it's miles ahead of what we had before, and if you're familiar with the movie you'll appreciate the drastic improvement. The disc whetted my appetite for more high-definition Godzilla releases, which have already begun to be produced in Japan, and I hope this is the first of many releases here. I understand Godzilla v. Megalon is up next, which certainly isn't the one I would have started with, but any and all are welcome.