This has to be one of the best BBC productions I've ever seen. You will absolutely be blown away by these actors and the quality of the screenplay. I read "I, Claudius" some years ago and admittedly, it didn't form much of an impression on me. This production caught me completely off guard. I can't believe I bought this from a used-seller for $40 and was given such a treat to watch all these master-class Shakespearean actors. Why have I not heard or seen Sian Phillips before this? She's absolutely wonderful. She's such a wicked woman but intensely amusing. You get to see decades of her misdeeds, all in the name of Rome of course, but even I pitied her during her death-bed scene. There's so many brilliant characters, several who are just so wonderfully hateful, especially John Hurt as Caligula. I read somewhere that most of what we know about Caligula is rumor, that his actual recorded history is unfortunately lost. There's some concurrance though, that he was either mentally ill or suffered from epilepsy. This production however, doesn't give him an ounce pity. He's depicted as as vile and grotesque, a "monster," even as a young boy.  I couldn't stop watching him or feeling afraid for any other person he came in contact with. No one was safe or able to speak out against him. John Hurt was I think only 36 at the time of this production, but he made the wisest choices as an actor. At the center of this family firestorm of murder, intrigue, and debauchery is our little Claudius. It's amazing to watch him survive through one clamity after another with barely the perception of his idiocy keeping him alive. I was a bit conflicted as to how I felt about him, though. On one hand I felt pity for him and his afflictions, and how he was mistreated by practically all his family. He was charming, loyal, and intelligent but unfortunately, too trusting. On the other hand, he barely had a back-bone. It's in his nature not to make trouble and he tries not to get involved, but sometimes that choice makes him gutless esepcially when innocent people need help. Even with some production, visual and sound problems with this DVD, I would still give this series higher than 5 stars if I could. I count myself very fortunate to have seen this. It's given me enthusiasm to buy other films and books centered around Imperial Rome. This DVD series is an absolute treasure, you wont be disappointed.