Let me start by saying that I love, love, love "The Dark Knight Returns" comic. I have read it once a year since it originally came out, probably. It's an awesome piece of comic art and I have been waiting to see the animation ever since I first heard it was coming out.

That being said, I find myself hugely disappointed. One of the best things about the comic is the way Miller puts you in the heads of the chief characters. The narrative is as much internal as it is external. You get to know Batman in a way you don't often see him, from the inside.

Obviously, the director/writers didn't think the narration worked. They try to externalize all the narrative and because of this you lose the sense of the inner motivations of Batman. Worse, since so much of the narrative of the story is internal, the writers have had to write in material that doesn't exist in the comic in order to explain to the viewers what's going on. Some of it is cringe inducing.

The writers obviously didn't want to take too much liberty with the dialogue so they resort to trying to tell the story visually in between all the dialogue. The result is a slow, plodding pace. It's so plodding that I found myself bored with the whole thing.

They also took some of the edginess off of Batman. In the graphic novel, Batman is mean-spirited, crotchety and sadistic. Some of the lines that really bring this out were cut so you get a watered-down, "safe" Dark Knight. You can almost hear the discussions being had around some conference table somewhere about the need to keep Batman "safe" for kids. Somebody somewhere chickened out and decided that it wouldn't change the story if Batman were just a little nicer.

For the record, I was 12 or 13 when I first read the comic and I ate it up, sadistic Batman and all.

I liked the casting of Peter Weller as Batman. After watching "Robocop", I actually thought he would've made a good live-action "Dark Knight" back in the day. He has the jaw for it. I do wish the voice acting had been a little more emotive. It felt kind of flat.

Lastly, the music was pretty standard fare, dull and unobtrusive. It doesn't add anything.

All-in-all, it's a pretty soul-less affair. You get the feeling that the director tried to "make it my own" and, in the end, he did so, much to my chagrin. He removed the art and the heart. As excited as I was for Part 1 to come out, I no longer look forward to Part 2.