Alternative Review Title: "It's a sculpture of the David"
At the time of its release, this was one of the freshest, funniest screwball comedies in a long time.  Having watched it on video a few years later, I find it unfortunate that some of the luster has worn off.  Perhaps seeing it in a theater with a good crowd was the difference; perhaps it's actually noticing how much larger the cellphones in 1997 were than the ones today.  (And what about in five more years . . . ?)
This is not to say that it's not a good movie.  It is, and the director and writer are to be commended for so many different, wonderful touches (the shadowed boat scene and smoking bellhop scene come to mind).  Julia Roberts, beautiful and vibrant as always, shines as a New York food critic summoned on short notice by her best (male) friend, a former lover and possible soulmate (Dermot Mulrooney), to provide moral support at his wedding in Chicago.  The plot revolves around Roberts' often backfiring efforts to break up the wedding and claim the groom for herself, usurping his rich, blonde, "perfect" fiancee Kimmie (Cameron Diaz), who may be more than she seems.  Rupert Everett virtually steals the show as Roberts' gay friend George, who alternates between mildly assisting in the scheme and functioning as her counselor and conscience.  A variety of characters, from the normal to the bizarre, round out the wedding party.  (Note: the Amazon.com Essential Review is incorrect when it names Roberts' character as a Chicago food critic.  It's clearly stated at one point that she's from NY, and she has to fly to the wedding.  I mean, Chicago's big, but still . . .)
A solid 3-1/2 to 4 star effort.  Recommended for fans of Roberts and those looking for a film that incorporates both comedy and romance without quite being a romantic comedy--in other words, an energetic, bittersweet blend with a beautiful anti-heroine whose actions and motivations provoke sympathy and concern in equal measure.  With music, dancing, singing, a chase in a bread truck and an ice sculpture of Michelangelo's David, this one just about has it all.  A trustworthy rental or bargain purchase.