Greg and his best friend start middle school (6th grade - 8th) where a lot of the boys are much bigger, and the girls they knew in elementary school have taken up new interests, like looking at cute boy butts. Greg will do whatever it takes to become very popular and get into the yearbook, while his friend is still an unselfconscious kid who likes to play and be goofy.

Every avenue to reach his popularity goal ends badly for Greg, creating very funny scenes: wrestling, he is one of the smallest kids and loses to the redhaired creepy boy who is even smaller. Then he cheats to get into a bigger weight class and loses to a snotty, obnoxious girl with braids who has hated him since kindergarten and whose parents sued the school under title 9 to put her in wrestling with the boys. She has a lot of aggression.

Best dressed boy - his buddy doesn't realize Greg is the only one who is supposed to go to school in the shirt and tie and copies Greg.

The school play/musical of the wizard of oz - ms. braids threatens the teacher with trouble from her mom, head of the PTA, to get the lead, and Greg ends up just being a tree, even though he has the best voice. He has the last laugh as the musical is ruined when Greg and the other tree boys have an apple throwing fight on stage. His dad secretly tells him that Dorothy deserved to have apples thrown at her.

All the pursuit of popularity causes Greg to disregard his friend. When his friend finds a new buddy, Greg figures that a new buddy for himself is payback, and tries to make friends with the creepy redhaired boy, who is the strangest child you can imagine. This attempt at a new buddy ends quickly when the creepy boy eats some sugar/candy, goes hyper superweird, and terrorizes Greg for hours with a booger.

Acting as the voice of maturity and sound advice is Chloe Grace Moretz, who plays a 7th grader who writes and takes photos for the school paper when she's not hiding under the bleachers during PE. She keeps popping up throughout the film, and Chloe is a fantastic actress and super cute. (She's also in "Let Me In" a 5 star r rated movie with a lot of blood and explicit violence, and she's in "Kickass" a 4 star r rated film with some sexual situations and a tremendous amount of very explicit violence, yet funny.)