A few weeks ago, I received the Blu-ray version of Watchmen: Director's Cut in the mail and turned on my PlayStation 3 and began watching. And after a couple of hours of watching the movie, viewing all the features, and checking out the BD-Live interactive features exclusive to the Blu-ray I have to say I'm pleased with my purchase.

The film itself is the director's cut of the film, adding 24 more minutes to the run time of the film with it clocking in at just over three hours. The movie, just as I felt with the theatrical version four months back, is amazing. The film is incredibly faithful to the novel, albeit a few changes (one pretty big, but I'm not here to review the film itself, but the disc package, so I won't be spoiling anything). So, with that done, I went onto the special features.

Before I talk more about what's one the first disc, I'm going to go over the special features on the second one. The features on the second disc (The Phenomenon: The Comic That Changed Comics; Real Super Heroes, Real Vigilantes; Mechanics: Technologies of a Fantastic World; and the My Chemical Romance "Desolation Row" music video) are okay, but the only ones I was very interested in were the 'Phenomenon' and 'Mechanics' videos, as the 'Vigilantes' feature didn't really focus a whole lot on the film or the graphic novel. These features, however, range from 15-30 minutes long, with a combined length of just over an hour. This is definitely on the short side, and since they're only three of them, you won't putting this disc into your player a whole lot. And as for the music video, well, it's a music video, and quite frankly, I'm not too impressed with it. I'm not a real big My Chemical Romance fan, and the video doesn't seem like it's anything special, even though it was directed by Zack Snyder. However, all these features are in 1080p HD, which is very nice. But after watching all these, I came away unimpressed. it just feels like there should be more here, and as a whole, the entire thing feels little underwhelming.

But, as I said before, I was pleased with my purchase, because where the second disc fails, the first disc exceeds. You can watch the film by itself or with the "Immersive WB Maximum Movie Mode", which is a fancy way of saying picture-in-picture commentary with behind-the-scenes features thrown in. This mode is pretty amazing. Through out the film a number of things will happen on the screen, ranging from comic panels and storyboards appearing during the related scene, to a timeline that shows what events occur in our, as well as, the Watchmen world, to a short, picture-in-picture documentary explaining how the scene was made. There are also times where it will ask if you would like to pause the film to view production photos, or longer behind-the-scene videos. But what is problem the coolest feature, are the times when the screen will zoom out to show Zack Snyder as he talks about the scene, and even compares it with a pre-production or behind-the-scenes video, side-by-side with the film. It's very well done, and looks really good.

When you compare the two discs, it seems like they took a lot of features that would normally be on the second disc and placed them on the first. And while this makes the first disc pretty amazing, especially in the way it's presented, the second disc suffers for it. In fact, it feels like the only reason there is a second disc is because they couldn't fit everything on the first one. Normally, most two disc sets put all the features on the second disc, with almost nothing but the film on the first. But Watchmen: Director's Cut adds a lot of features with the film itself, which makes the second disc feel thin, but if you compare all the features, there is a lot here.

My only real disappointment here is the lack of any real commentary. Sure, Zach Snyder comes on a talks about a scene every once in a while, but it's not during the entire film, only in select scenes. There is supposed commentary with Zack Snyder and Dave Gibbons on the Ultimate Collector's Edition, which comes out late this year, but since I'm talking about this version of the film, it really doesn't matter. There is a sleeve inside for $10 off the Ultimate Edition, just to let you know.

At the end of the day, I would recommend Watchmen: Director's Cut to any fan of the film or Watchmen in general. There is enough here to keep you busy, and the film itself is very entertaining.