DRESNOK and his family are a liability to the North Korean Government in the ways of their uselessness, unlimited food, cigarettes, booze and backward minded medical care. Once he dies after the most lonely and boring life he chose for himself and his descendants, the family will have to leave their government provided flat and the rations provided to them. Good bye the "BS Life of Riley". They will join the ranks of the third of the population that have no food to eat and where some end up in labour camps because they dare "complain" they work for no pay and need to feed their family. If you can, don't miss on PBS "North Korea: liberty or death". It's about North Koreans escaping to China, one at a time; some women are sold to Chinese pimps for $300 to $500 "a piece" depending on their looks. If they are caught by the guards, they die. There is a church in South Korea named DURIHANA which helps people through a "thousands of miles journey" back to South Korea who takes in all refugees. I urge you all to donate to this Evangelical church who does all it can to save these forsaken people from a life of sure death. You will never see anyone who's crossed over to China mention a country with food galore, boozing it up until you pass out, and fishing and "BBQ'ing" on the river banks your catch of the day that's about 3 inches long with your toothless buddies who all brought a bunch of booze for the cameras, and are all laughing at the "great life" they have under their evil god leader. DRESNOK spent his life denied the privilege to speak or think for himself, about God, freedom, human rights or even dreaming about a juicy burger. He backstabs the US. But how he wishes that he too could get out of that filthy hell hole. North Korea have no need of these men's kids! If they were to leave the place on assignment, I'm sure they wouldn't return! I have to say that I am most ashamed of every western leader in the world that is allowing this monstrosity of a regime to operate. And I pray that very, very soon, some of these men would give this some worthwhile thought and bring it to a full stop. Where is the UN? It is said time and time again that North Koreans are suffering the most on the planet. Some work for no pay, like it or not. If someone is found guilty and sent to prison for "whatever", in some instances they kill the family's 3 next generations through forced labour, IF they survive! Also check out OPEN DOORS and VOICE OF THE MARTYRS and see how they also help where they can. But don't forget about DURIHANA! Thanks a lot everyone! Isn't it great to be FREE!!! God Bless You!!!