This is a traditional telling of the life of Jesus, from before his birth to the resurrection.

The cinematography is breathtaking, the color, the costuming, the writing aided by Carl Sandberg is flawless and inspired and the scene of Jesus weeping and then raising Lazarus from the dead is awe inspiring. It was this scene which motivated me to write this review.

Rather than showing us a thunderous awakening from the dead within the tomb, Stevens has Jesus lift the hem of his toga and make the difficult climb up a rocky bluff, puffing all the way to the tomb on top of a hill. Once there, Jesus strikes a pose made popular by the style of Ivan Mestrovic and the French bronze sculptors of the mid twentieth century. When Jesus reaches the high tomb, Stevens and Sandberg compose a masterpiece of prayer to the God of life before Jesus calls out, "LAZARUS! COME FORTH!"  But in striking juxtaposition, Stevens pulls back the camera, hundreds of feet from the tomb showing Jesus, the Son of the Almighty, as a mere speck against the infinity of the countryside, let alone the universe, much as the fist fight between Charlton Heston and Gregory Peck in BIG COUNTRY, shows the scale of man to God's work. However, as Jesus calls-out Lazarus instead of seeing him rise, we see the wonderment, the bewilderment, the fear and love of men at the prospect of one man raising another from the abyss. We see in the crowd, as the camera dollies, rolls and scans, the faces of the believers, the unbelievers, the doubters and the ever faithful, their reactions to a man dead three days, reawakened by an act of God, brought forth by a human being, favored by God.

How much more effective was this direction? Rather than a straw man of seeing the dead rise, we see instead how people like us would react to such a thing, the awe, the tears of joy, the fear, the love, the attempts to reconcile with reality, the unbelievable. There was no better way to show the spectacle and that scene alone is a must-see for an aspiring  artist or film director. My only complaint about the film is a nitpicky one, Jesus' (Max Von Sydow) hair is too short.

If you believe, clap your hands, and even if you don't, its worth the 199 minutes of your time. I saw the film with friends when it came out in 1965 and own the VHS and DVD, and watched it with a group, one of which was a self-proclaimed atheist-he had tears in his eyes at the Lazarus scene.

4.75 Stars