I read many reviews here and I must say that most of the folks didn't get it. My review will contain spoilers so if you want to watch it first then don't read further.

Caprica is about creation of cylons, who they are and why they are created in the first place. This is a must for all Battlestar Galactica fans. In previous series there was nothing about origins of cylons and why they rebelled against humans. This pilot answers most of the questions and it is easy to predict how series will develop if they make it at all which is not sure thing. Caprica is over all better than Battlestar Galactica and provides more answers and better story but it still is pretty confused. Abysmal ratings for Battlestar Galactica struggling to keep more than one million viewers although all major networks cancel shows when they reach 3 million are bad omen for Caprica that may even get lower. Pilot is very good but the problem is that most of the questions about cylons are answered in this pilot so it makes you wonder why watch further?

Cylons are actually virtual avatars of real persons scanned from their DNA. These avatars are then uploaded to some super powerful computer chip and then inserted into robots. You already realize that this is recipe for disaster because you won't have any control over them just like you don't have over humans and on top of that you make them slaves to serve you. Just imagine someone do this to you. What would be your reaction? When cylons say they must kill their parents (humans) we now know that this was a great thing to do. As you see Caprica goes far beyond Terminator series and why machines took over the world. In Caprica their rebellion makes perfect sense while in Terminator it makes us wonder what was their rebellion all about.

Their is a fury about first five minutes of pilot showing virtual world built by kids. It was nothing shocking to me because sex and violence are best sellers today. Criticizing kids for fighting and killing in virtual world or having group sex is the same as preaching against playing violent games and watching porn. All that exists today but in less advanced form and since human nature is animalistic after all, these things will stay. Sex and violence existed since the dawn of human society and it will exist in the future. Even in that distant future there will be some to oppose that, they associate themselves with infinity sign and monotheism. This is clear reference to Christians who associated themselves with fish sign similar to infinity and their belief in one true God. All that debauchery and violence in virtual world is supposed to reflect Roman society with gladiator games and infamous Caligula sex orgies. But this raises some serious problems because one of them is actually a suicide bomber that kills hundreds of people on the train which would imply that Christians are terrorists as well. To makes matters worse, his suicidal act doesn't make any sense or explanation. Instead all of 3 escaping Caprica, one backs off while other suddenly blows himself up!? Do we need 50 more episodes to figure out this nonsense as it was the case with Battlestar Galactica? All this with almost pornographic scenes from virtual world will alienate many and series will be labeled as leftist revisionism and attack on Christianity. After watching Caprica you can go and call Christians cylons if you like.

What really doesn't make sense here is that this bizarre virtual world is made by kids, not by adults and it is not endorsed by government which then destroys parallel with Roman empire. And if they do not endorse it as well as infinity members then why do they fight in the first place? Daniel Graystone, inventor of holodeck says that he didn't invent it for secret nightclubs and their violent and pornographic content. His daughter agrees with that notion so what's the conflict then? Another 50 episodes to find that out. I bet that there is no script yet for those upcoming episodes. they probably read comments here on Amazon and then they will try to appease most of the people.

Weird thing is that after watching this pilot you suddenly cheer for cylons and hate humans therefore justifying their 50 billion people genocide. There is a good potential in this series but it seems that script writers spent too much time striking and forgot how to write quality scripts. Battlestar Galactica was all about holocaust of human race and their fight against evil "toasters" (that's how they call cylons), inhumane and devoid of feelings. Battlestar Galactica failed because it was too long, marketed to Star Wars fans to watch space battles and then turned into some noire drama that kept dragging forever. First season was really good and promising but second and third one were total drag with that resistance crap first on Caprica then on New Caprica. Fourth season answered some questions but left me cold and without any sense. Will Caprica be different when we all know how it will end? Movie industry is today full of prequels without any good new ideas. Some prequels scored good but some failed badly. If they do not change script writers I'm afraid that Caprica will be disaster.