So I have been a Tony Horton - P90X and Shaun T - Insanity fan for the past year.  With these two programs, my fitness level has increased dramatically.  I'd say that I am in the best shape of my life.  So when I heard about P90X2, I was really looking forward to it.  PAP, Core, new YOGA and Ab ripper2.  Bring it! Bring it!! Bring it!!!

But the reality hit me after I did a few of these workouts.  P90X2 has a different focus than the original.  It is almost like they want to make it to be something in between insanity and the original p90x.  So here are the workout I have done and what I thought about them.  I will update my review as I tryout the workouts.  However for the ones who only want the short and sweet bottom line - see below.

so comparison:
P90X - original, no thrill muscle building, fat killing workout.
Insanity - Awesome cardio-conditioning, which p90x lacked.  But not as much resistance training.
P90X2 - attempt to cover both cardio/muscle building/balance control - a mix between the two above.

So for p90x2:
Pros:
Great overall body workout with individual phases (1, 2, 3)
Yoga is shorter and faster
New moves for the p90x grads
Lots more focus on warm up and cool down (about 20 mins total in each of the 55 min workout)
Lots more focus on balance moves

Cons:
Too many equipment required
Too long of warmup and cool down - about 1/3 of the video...really...1/3 of the video
Progression between moves are very fast (too fast to follow at times)
Some moves are unnatural and can be dangerous to do
Tony did not count out the moves very well...or at least compared to p90x.

Different from P90X - not as focused on muscle building...people who really dislike this program should think about that maybe they are at a very different point of their fitness (p90x did what it suppose to do...so now you are looking for that something extra).

The last thing I have to comment:
looking at p90x to p90x2; then looking at insanity to asylum: both workout progression published by beachbody appears to incorporate a lot of new workout equipments in the second iteration.  I hope they realize that people buy their product because of the workouts...not the equipments.  of course, your profit goes up when you can get people to buy all the accessories that comes with the workout...but you may also turn people off.  Besides...you already got great first generation workout without the need for all the excessive workout gear.  Think about it...we are trying to do this at home/apartments.  if we want to get all the gear and create a home gym maybe we should just buy a gym membership...

Individual workout review - this is a little lengthy...so have patience:

1. Ab rip 2 VS. Ab rip 1 = I really liked ab ripper 1.  the new ab ripper just did not do it for me.  The number of moves progressed too quickly.  I did not feel a great amount targeted work.  Now, it is like they decided to modify a couple of moves from ab ripper 1, core synergistic, yoga 1 abs and do a mix match to create this.  I am not sure what I am expecting but which it was harder...  Also, some of the moves are not natural...unlike P90X ab ripper where everything just felt right.  maybe it's because I am used to ab-ripper 1.  -- a couple times later -- I stand by my opinion and recommend if you really want a day to just do abs - try to do ab ripper 1 and 2 together for a session.

2. Yoga 2: shorter yes, different moves yes, better...NO!!  I hate it....I liked the original yoga so so much better.  the moving options progressed so quickly, you felt like you were doing a cardio workout.  I mean guys...this is yoga!  you need to hold your poses not just progression from move to move....  Anyhow, I do like the fact it is shorter.  I did not like the yoga belly in the new workout.  the original yoga is so much better....I'd just add a couple of moves to the original, shorten the stretch sections, and just do the moving options.  I think that is enough for strength and flexibility.  The standing options are good to do but if you are sick of it like me...don't bother...stick with yoga 1.

3. PAP lower: great workout.  really pushed you to the limit.  I would not have been able to do this if I have not done insanity.  It is a mix of lift and cardio...or if you want to use the correct Post-activation potentiation terms - resistance then explosion.  If you look at some of the studies, the elite athletes perform better than the recreational athletes with this workout.  Also all the studies used heavy lifts (squats).  Anyhow, without getting into the details, I'd say this is a great workout.  It really made me sweat - dropped 4 lbs in one session (all in water weight).  Do be careful with explosive moves...you may get injured if you don't be careful (esp. when you are exhausted.)

4. PAP Upper: okay workout.  moves are okay...first complex is better than the second.  I'd say they probably could design a better resistance workout before you go explosive.  This workout does a total upper body - ie. arms, core, back...so maybe that is the goal.  Anyhow, it is an okay workout.  I am tired at the end of the workout but definitely not feeling the muscle burn in my arms like you do when you do P90X chest and back or shoulder/bi/tri.

5.  Core x2 - good workout but not as good as core synergistic for p90x.  It has a couple of moves that I'd incorporate into synergistic workout but that is about it.  Alot of the balance moves with medicine ball/balance ball are very uncomfortable and dangerous...you can really hurt your wrist or lower back or simply fall on your face...  too much focus is put on balance rather than actual core work.  Did not like it that much, stick with the ab ripper 1&2 combo and core synergistic for the core.

6. Plyocide - This workout is not like plyometrix...It is more like insanity's max interval plyo.  There are a few moves that I thought it was really like insanity's workout.  Anyhow, really good cardio...by then end of the workout, I was showering in my own sweat (not a great picture...)  Great cardio-workout.  A few moves changes way too fast...really hard follow the first time around.

7. Total Body - This workout has a litte of everything.  Hits the shoulders, back, bi/tri, core and legs.  I think that is why it is  total body.  The only thing is there are some balance moves that makes you feel like either you are gonna to slip or fall so to injure your wrist.  This is a great workout though - you will sweat like a bear.  12 moves 2 rounds - reasonable and doable.

8. Chest/Back - This workout is full of balance moves.  NOT A FAN.  Most of the moves are unstable without any instructions on how to do the moves or what modifications to do to work up to the balanced moves.  I don't feel that I really worked out afterwards...well...that was because half of the time I was not able to push myself due to falling off the medicine balls.  I feel that this workout could have been so much better.  Becareful on the moves with medicine balls - if you are not careful, you will slip and hurt your wrist.

9. Shoulder and Arm - This is closest to the original p90x workout.  After the workout, I felt similar to when I first started p90x.  But be careful, there are still alot of balance moves.

10.  Base and Back -  This is basically a pullup and jump training workout.  Not as intense as the p90x's legs and back.  But I did learn in the video that Tony is 52 during the filming of p90x2.  I guess that is a pretty good testament to taking care of yourself then you can look and function better than a 30 year old when you are 50.

okay I am done for now... untill next workout..