Welcome to Mission Hill...possibly one of the greatest 'cartoons' ever made.  It's quite a tragedy that it only lasted one season. Both discs have been sitting in my dvd player for weeks and I just can't stop watching it. Situational comedies like this are the greatest because you get to watch characters evolve and 'grow-up,' so-to-speak, despite the fact it's an animated show and that it could quite literally never grow any of the characters up at all to retain the demographic the show was aimed at portraying (of which they do brilliantly).

Mission Hill chronicles the lives of the French brothers and their wacky roomies and neighbors of their tenant building in Mission Hill (which, according to the creators' commentary, is based on the Wicker Park community in Chicago). Although the show originally aired in 2000 (i think) on the WB (young teen girl's network...bad place for this show, hence the cancellation) it does a great job of poking fun at the pop culture of today. I find myself able to empathize with Andy French, the main character of the show, who is a 24 year-old wannabe cartoonist (like me, only I'm a 3D artist) working at a water bed store that has to take on Kevin, his younger 17 year old brother, as a roomie so that Kevin can continue to go to school in the area in the event of his parents moving to another state . Ensuing are many great comedic moments between the rival siblings and the ensuing adventures of their roommates and neighbors, which are interwoven so well in the show.

As other reviewers have noted, there are audio 'problems' throughout some episodes simply because of rights issues with songs. In the episode 'Unemployment Part 1' there is a moment where it even appears that music was used to cover up some dialog, for reasons to me unknown (never saw this episode on TV...put it back on Adult Swim!). All other music missing or replaced is a simple case of not being able to get rights to use it on the DVD because the studio didn't want to pay for the royalties, I'm guessing. Damn those music labels and their greed...anywho, it's a small price to pay to have a fantastic show like this on hand to watch whenever you feel like some quality TV viewing.

I can only hope that enough people buy this DVD set to produce enough interest from Paramount to restart production of this show and bring back all the fantastic people involved in making this show what it was. If a crappy show like Family Guy can come back from the dead, surely a genius show like this can...though I fear it will not happen.