Rarely does a horror film as effective, realistic, and frightening as "Maniac" come along.  Too many horror films glamorize the violence, or make us root for the killers ("A Nightmare On Elm Street Part 2: Freddy's Revenge," "A Nightmare On Elm Street 3: Dream Warriors," "A Nightmare On Elm Street 4: The Dream Master," "A Nightmare On Elm Street: The Dream Child," "Freddy's Dead: The Final Nightmare," just to name a few) without actually touching on what makes horror scary.

"Maniac" is different.  It's the first horror film I've seen that shows violence for what it really is: cruel, sick, wrong, terrible, disgusting.  There is no point in the movie where we're rooting for Frank Zito, the murderer of "Maniac."  He is a truly disturbed individual and the movie is extra scary because we know that plenty of people like him walk the streets today.

I think "Maniac" is a very underrated movie because for one thing, it is very well done.  Yes, it was shot on the cheap, but you can tell that care was put into it.  The low budget and hand-held camera add a certain amount of realism that can not be duplicated in the bigger budget Hollywood horror story.  William Lustig directs with a sure hand, and there are plenty of memorable scenes that stick in your head forever.  The scene where Frank Zito scalps a hooker in a hotel room is positively terrifying, and the entrance of Caroline Munro into the movie is handled especially nicely.  The best scene is without a doubt the one in which Frank chases a nurse down into the subway and into the men's room, where he sniffs her out like an animal sniffing out prey.  The scene is long and suspenseful and incredibly nerve-wracking, and Kelly Piper gives one of the best depictions of complete and utter terror ever put on film.

Speaking of which, it is the acting in this movie that really elevates it over some of the other cheesy horrors of the '80s.  The star of the movie is Joe Spinell, and there is no debating that.  Most people only know Spinell from his bit parts in such movies as "The Godfather," "The Godfather: Part II," "Taxi Driver," "Rocky," or "Rocky II," but this movie proves without a doubt that the man had major acting chops.  He engulfs himself in the Frank Zito character, so much that we start to believe we are watching a real serial kiler at work here.  Spinell also does an incredible thing by managing to gain a little sympathy from us despite all the terrible things we watch him do.  That takes talent, my friends.  He dominates the movie.  Caroline Munro is very sweet and loveable in her part as photographer Anna D'Antoni.  The rest of the actors do good, but don't stand out especially with Spinell in the lead.

The effects are what have made the movie famous, and may I say this is prehaps the best Tom Savini has ever given us.  The effects here are disgusting and amazingly realistic.  Everyone's heard of the exploding head, but that's not all.  The scalpings and stabbings and myriad other violent acts are all presented in their uncensored glory and look mightily real.  Great work, Mr. Savini!

"Maniac" was previously available on DVD from Elite Enterainment, but Anchor Bay rereleased it in a rather wonderful DVD set which you could also get as a limited edition with an extra disc (shaped like Spinell's head and featuring music from the movie) and enclosed in a tin case.  I love those limited editions, so I managed to get myself a copy of the tin edition (I bought it right here from good old Amazon.com, used and for a very reasonable price) and it's a wonderful set.  Anchor Bay put a lot of clear effort into the features.  We get the excellent commentary (from the laserdisk and previous Elite DVD) which is really quite funny while also giving plenty of good information.  Also, there is a very, very, very touching documentary called, "The Joe Spinell Story."  The great actor finally gets the respect he deserves in this 50 minute piece where friends, family, and coworkers gather to discuss the talented Mr. Spinell.  It's a brutally honest documentary and pulls no punches when it comes to discussing Spinell's flaws, among them alcohol and drug abuse.  We also get a 19 minute radio interview from 1980 with William Lustig, Joe Spinell, and Caroline Munro that is rather nice, and gives a good oportunity to hear the quick wit of Spinell.

Finally, we get all the marketing materials you could ask for.  All the trailers and TV spots are collected and we also get a very funny 'gallery of outrage.'  Here, you can read what some of the critics thought about "Maniac," and it's all rather amusing.

I don't think I've seen a more underrated movie than "Maniac."  Some people just don't get it, and some are put off by the realism and grotesque violence, but trust me, this is a well made, frightening, and incredibly acted movie that'll stay in your head long after viewing.  One of the best horror movies ever.  Easily recommended.