You can take my review with this grain of salt if you like.  I went in knowing very little about Sexy Beast except I was a little intrigued  about it having caught the tail end of the Ebert and Roper review.  They were commenting about how scary Ben Kingsley was as Don Logan and that even the back of his neck was scary. Suffice it to say a shaved head, big arm tattoos and a goatee with downturned moustache helps create a tough guy image and it works on Ben Kingsley too.  However I think this is not a good reason to see the movie.  Kingsley did a fine job, however its hard not to take in his diminutive stature and too tight slacks which made him slightly comical.  I dislike coming down on this film because it was not shot with a big budget. There were sound problems making the thick accents off the lesser characters difficult to understand at times. But mostly I felt there were some odd choices made that prevented a strong emotional bond with the "good guys" in the film.  The family and friends are largely left to express themselves in somber looks and very little dialog.  This works effectively in the opening scenes when it is announced Don Logan will be arriving on a plane the next day.  The distress is palpable. However affection and family bonds are hard to read.  The main character pretty much has to tell us verbally he loves his wife and the neighbor loves his wife.  Their relationships look rather gray and non communicative. When they do communicate it feels like they are not reaching one another at all. This is a bleek move for a film in the comedy genre...even a black comedy.  The heist which is the focal point of the film should have been very interesting. While unique it  suffered from a lack of set up and choreography to let you know what steps were involved so that there was some tension being created and so you could know when goals were achieved so you could celebrate a little.  The whys and wherefores of this break-in in which water plays an important part were taken for granted and left the whole segment feeling unnecessarily flat. For myself, the comedy was a little too dry and the drama a little too light to say I really enjoyed Sexy Beast.  It was often entertaining to be sure.  But not enough to recommend.