Walt Disney Studios Home Entertainment have announced the Region 1 DVD release of Wave 9 of their Walt Disney Treasures series. Available in limited quantity on 3rd November 2009 is Zorro: Season 1 and Zorro: Season 2.

The latest addition to the celebrated Walt Disney Treasures, Zorro, makes its fully restored black & white DVD debut. All 78 episodes of the timeless classic will be included on two new six-disc sets--making up the ninth installment of the popular Walt Disney Treasures, and for the first time, will be housed in collectible black, numbered unique tin cases.

From 1957 to 1959, Disney's Zorro was one of the most popular series on television starring Guy Williams, Henry Calvin, and Gene Sheldon. The show helped transform the literary character Don Diego de la Vega into the ultimate iconic, beloved swashbuckling masked hero of the time. The adventures of Zorro and his trusty steed Tornado have captivated audiences since their inception, gaining new audiences when it was re-aired on the Disney Channel in 1983 and re-colorizing the episodes in the 1990s. After the series conclusion, the Zorro adventures lived on from 1960 to 1961 on Walt Disney's Wonderful World of Color in the form of a four-episode anthology series of hour-long Zorro specials, all of which are also included in Walt Disney Treasures Wave IX.

Both debut Walt Disney Treasures sets are hosted by noted film historian, author and critic Leonard Maltin. Each limited edition, individually numbered volume includes a Zorro pin, an authenticity certificate, exclusive lithograph and comes in a unique, collectible black tin.

Priced at $59.99 SRP each, extras are outlined below...

Zorro: The Complete First Season
Zorro: El Bandido - Part 1 of a 2-part story shown as a 1-hour-special on the Disneyland television show (original air date: October 30, 1960)
Zorro: Adios El Cuchillo - Part 2 of a 2-part story shown as a 1-hour-special on the Disneyland television show (original air date: November 6, 1960)

Zorro: The Complete Second Season
Zorro: The Postponed Wedding - A 1-hour special that originally aired on the Disneyland television show (original air date: January 1, 1961)
Zorro: Auld Acquaintance - A 1-hour special that originally aired on the Disneyland television show (original air date: April 2, 1961)