I put off watching this for quite a while because of the mediocre reviews. I'd read Cormac McCarthy's book and didn't want to be disappointed by the film version. Having now watched the film I'm baffled by the reviews. The novel is bleak, but probably the most accessible of his books. The title really sums it up. Set in 1980s Texas, in the early stages of the cross-border drug trade, the ruthless, often sadistic and pointless violence of the new criminal class has rendered the old fashioned, comparatively decent law enforcers redundant, baffled and powerless. Hence, No Country for Old Men.

I was pleasantly surprised by the film. It portrays the events of the book perfectly, almost scene for scene, in all its bleak pointlessness. That is the point! The characterisation and acting are superb; the locations and sets are wonderful. The first hour or so is one of the most convincing and entertaining pieces of cinema I've ever seen. If it then tails off slightly it is the fault of the book rather than the film. McCarthy's outlook is so bleak that nobody ever gets out alive or undamaged - there are no happy endings in this story. The main character has no redeeming qualities, which, for me, was the one weakness of the book.

Javier Bardem's character, Chigurh, was a kind of human Terminator who didn't quite `belong' here. Most of the characters in the story were bad or corrupt in some way, their purpose to illustrate the new, ruthless criminality, but they would not go out of their way to hunt and kill people who were not obstructing them, not really anything to do with them. Chigurh did not need to be quite so psychotically determined, killing even those who could not possibly harm him. McCarthy could have made his point without leaving quite so large a trail of dead bodies. That, to me, is his weakness - he sees no chinks of light anywhere - they exist, but he doesn't see them. I also thought Bardem, although brilliant, was miscast. The haircut from hell didn't help.

Again, this is the fault of the book. Although the story could have had happier outcomes for some of the characters without detracting from its purpose, the Coens, once they had decided to film it, could hardly have messed with the work of such a prominent writer. They did a brilliant job, retaining a very black humour throughout, although those appalled by the violence may have missed it. With slight reservations, a great film.