This is my favorite movie of 2011 and my favorite sports movie of all-time! I saw the trailer to this movie around spring of 2011. My reaction was, 'This is probably gonna suck really bad when it comes out.' The more I watched the trailer, the more I couldn't help but find myself building up my anticipation to see it. I guess the reason why would be because I love movies and I love MMA! We all know most or all recent MMA movies suck and haven't really been taken too seriously due to the previous attempts like 'Never Back Down', 'Fighting'(Not sure if it's even considered an MMA movie, but might as well be.), 'Unrivaled', 'Undisputed' 2 & 3(Great action in these 2 flicks), 'Flashpoint', and 'Redbelt' which was pretty good and realistic but was more of a drama than an MMA or sports movie. Now 'Warrior' has all the elements to make it a great picture. It was one of those rare movies that had you expecting it to be really good even though something inside you said it might suck. Boy was I wrong and glad! Great story, great acting, great action, great music, and an awesome cast. Nick Nolte deserves an Oscar nomination for doing such an awesome job. I am officially a Tom Hardy fan now. Now the most important and favorite part of the movie for me was the conclusion before the credits. I haven't found myself seriously tearing up like that during or right after an action scene since 'T2' or 'Braveheart'. It was such a bittersweet ending when the song 'About Today' starts playing at the end when the brothers are fighting. I'm gonna stop here because I feel myself tearing up just thinking about that final scene in the movie as they're walking back to the locker room and the father is looking at them from a distance. WOW!!! It's almost impossible for me to believe that there will ever be a better MMA movie than 'Warrior'! Great job to director, Gavin O'Connor! Too bad I don't see the movie getting a Best Picture nomination due to the nature of the media and the public's reaction to MMA.