Fans and purists of THE ADVENTURES OF SUPERMAN TV series a major disappointment.

First, the prints are obviously the truncated TV syndication versions. If your're looking for the original Kellogg's openings, they're not here, though there are 16mm prints circulating throughout the film collecting hobby with ecploding planet and "Kellogg's, the greatest name in cereal presents...The Adventures of Superman" announcer line.

Secondly, each first season episode had a "Preview" at the story's conclusion before the credits consisting of a a montage of sequences from the next epsiode. These have been Deleted as well.

Third, only four of the original Kellogg's cereal commercials cast commercials are included as one of the special features. All feature only George Reeves as Clark Kent.

The mini-documentary, SUPERMAN: FROM INKWELL TO BACKLOT, is definitely not for diehards. Jack Larson, Allan Asherman, Leonard Maltin, Gary Grossman, Paul Levitz, Dan DiDio, Maike Carlon and Alex Ross and several figures currently associated with DC Comics and the SMALLVILLE TV series chime in with opinions and an brief comments about the series and its impact on 1950s television audiences (--interestingsince only a few of them were alive at the time--). But its pretty bland stuff. No behind-the-scenes footage, production stills or nuggets of little known information.

Thankfully, SUPERMAN AND THE MOLE MEN is included in its entirety as well in its' ADVENTURES OF SUPERMAN version: THE UNKINOWN PEOPLE - Parts 1 & 2. But sadly, the theatrical trailer was not included.

The Technicolor Warner Brothers short, PONY EXPRESS DAYS (1940) starring George Reeves is also included. No doubt we'll see the Warners' shorts on future volumes for padding as well.

Packing is colorful and first rate, though a bit cumbersome. One can only imagine how long the multi-fold six disc packaging will last...epscially with repeated handling.

Eons ago, my young eyes were amazed by SUPERMAN AND THE MOLE MEN (--seen at the long-gone Lindale Theater in Houston--), but, then they had been equally amazed at the weekly episodes of ATOM MAN VS. SUPERMAN (--seen at the Joy Theatre also in Houston and also long since departed--). When the first episode of THE ADVENTURES OF SUPERMAN was telecast, I was in the front of the set.

To the dedicated ADVENTURES OF SUPERMAN fan -- and who saw it on its first run or even into the 1960s when the Kellogg's openings and previews were still intact on most syndication prints, the set is a disappointment. Though the first shows -- and they are both dark and violent for these sensitive times -- still entertain and recall a imagintive time in television's -- and our -- youth.