I can't  believe nobody has reviewed this made-for-TV 2-part version of Arthur Conan Doyle's timeless story.  First, I must point out what this is NOT:

  This is NOT the lame, dino-muppet version with John Rhys-Davies
  as Professor Challenger (which was also a 2-part TV movie, I
  think, and it spawned an equally awful sequal).

  This HAS NOTHING TO DO with the lame TV series of the same name.
  Not its pilot movie, NOTHING.

This version stars Bob Hoskins (Kruschev in "Enemy at the Gates") as Challenger, and he plays him exactly as Doyle wrote him.  It also stars Bernard Fox as the pompous Summerlee.  I can't recall the younger actors' names right now, but they are all excellently cast as the naively impulsive Malone, the debonnaire but savage Lord Roxton, and the sweet but strong daughter of a missionary, a character not in the Doyle novel which I'll get to in a moment.  These characters are well-developed and likeable.

The cinematography is rich, with victorian-era London and lush, amazonian jungles while the special effects are not your typically lame CGI animated monsters, but the highly realistic computer models originally developed for the BBC series "Walking with Dinosaurs".  No mish-mash of dinos from varying ages here, the spotlight is on the few species that make up an eco-system and the bad boy of the reptiles here is the Allosaurus just as it was in Doyle's novel.

The script is extremely faithful to Doyle's novel, and I must applaud in particular the way it handles the ape-men.  This film treats them in a sympathetic yet unsentimental light, choosing neither to demonize them or using them to make some politically correct statement.  They are brutal and murderous, yet also capable of maternal love and communication.  Just when you think they are about to reach an understanding with our band of explorers, they create a tragedy for the indian tribesmen among which our band has taken refuge, teaching Challenger a bitterly un-PC lesson in survival.  The viewer can understand why the tribesmen want to kill all the ape-men, but at the same time, can't blame the ape-men for their actions considering the circumstances.

One area where this long tele-film deviates significantly from the source material is in the addition of a missionary who causes the band to be stranded (portrayed by Peter Falk).  This will no doubt infuriate some religious viewers, but Falk's character obviously represents the "creationists" to Hoskin's rude and impatient Challenger who represents the evolutionists.  Considering what the story is about, I thought this was an almost inescapable development overlooked by the other, far lesser versions of "the Lost World".  But again, the scriptwriter handles the missionary sensitively, and Falk's brilliant  portrayal makes the viewer feel the tragedy of his life, his anguish as he commits the unthinkable, spurred on by the threat to everything he thought he knew.  This element, I feel, elevates this story beyond just another dinosaur adventure flick and redefines the novel to modern audiences.

Sadly, this 2-disc DVD set is no longer produced, but if you are a fan of "the Lost World", or like excellent, richly filmed adventures with great characters, snap up the used copies while you still have a chance.  You won't be sorry.  Should all available copies disappear, there should be a serious, letter campaign to get it re-issued as this is the best version of the novel ever filmed and it would be sad to let it drown amongst all the dreck that goes by the same name.