This film was made before CG, before Star Wars and Star Trek and all those other sci-fi films that seem to be wholly about lasers and do-dads and weird looking aliens.  See, I never liked science fiction.  I found it to be too nerdy, lacking heart and soul, more concerned with gadgetry and amazingly complicated story lines and stuff I just couldn't relate to.  What I didn't realize is that there is sci-fi for me: the classics.  This was when the emphasis was on the fiction, this was when sci-fi could serve as an allegory to man's plight in the universe, peeling back the layers of what makes us human while carefully masking it's message behind some entertainment.  The time machine is one of these films.  I first saw it in sixth grade, many years ago and remembered being surprised about liking it (again, don't like sci-fi).  But this film has some great characters, performances, something to say without saying it, and some great old effects (again, cg takes me right out of a film, it's just more inventive here if a bit cheesy).  THe picture looks great so I'd definately recommend buying it.

But the real reason to buy it is the behind the scenes featurette. It is simply hillarious.  I have never laughed so hard at a featurette.  The pacing is what got to me, the singular fixation on the prop of the time machine rather than an in-depth explanation of the film, the creepy way Rod Taylor looks up to talk to the deceased George Pal, when one of the actors just stares into the camera talking to the audience in character with a slow zoom into his face, the "what-if" scene at the end, the random inclusion of material and the shoving in of the title card every once and awhile.  It's like listening to your grandfather tell you a story about his favorite chair.  It's comic genius (not to be disrespectful to any involved but all seemed highly staged and organized so I feel that I'm not insulting them when I say that)

Favorite line: Rod Taylor: "And so the time machine lives on, in Back to the Future promos and other various appearences"

Trust me, this thing is genius.  It's like Christopher Guest on his best day.