"Scarface is the story of Tony Montana, a Cuban immigrant who manages to make his way into the highly lucractive cocaine business in 1980's Miami. Tony, and his more laid back friend Manny Ray (Steven Bauer), start out doing pick up jobs for local drug boss Frank Lopez (Robert Loggia). But Tony's ruthless ambition and "balls" allow him to rise up through the ranks. He eventually breaks off from Lopez and establishes a much more profitable business contact with a Colombian drug lord (Paul Shear).

Along the way, Tony gets together with Elvira (Michele Pheiffer), former girlfriend of Lopez. But their relationship is based only on money and status, lacking the love and personal connection to make it anything but shallow and empty. Tony's sister Gina (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantiono) also becomes involved in the criminal lifestyle, as the girlfriend of Manny. But Tony is unable to accept his sister as anything but a vessel of purity, a symbol of the "good world" of family and morality that he long ago left behind. He ends up killing Manny for "corrupting" his sister.

The movie concludes with Tony, through his greed and macho bravado, having managed to alienate his Colombian business partner. A drug turf war then ensues, with the more powerful Colombian kingpin finally sending an army of his mercenaries to Tony's Miami mansion. Thus Tony's life ends in the expected outcome for a man of his lifestyle and character - lying down to die in a pool of blood.

What makes "Scarface" a classic is that it manages to rise far above the typical action film, into a tale about the excesses of American materialism and the morally and spiritually backrupt extremes some people are willing to go to achieve their desires for wealth and power. Tony is an empty man who longs for fulfillment through money, women, status, etc. But he ends up finding nothing but misery, as illustrated by his dining room complaint that there is nothing to his life but "eating, drinking, f**king, sucking". Ultimately, Tony is able to care about no one but himself and ends up loveless, friendless, strung out on coke and, finally, murdered. In Tony's version of the "American Dream" - "The World Is Yours". But at what price?