An animated oil painting; a feast for the eyes and for the soul.

This film is deceptively simple.  It is the story of a deer who loses his mother by a human hunter; it is also a story about rebirth and spring.  It is a story about furry animals and a story about man as the most terrible of the beasts.

But it is also about all life; it is about love & loss, play & responsibility, time & open spaces, friendship & niches, wonder & sacrifice, wisdom & folly, courage & fear, conflict & beauty.

I will offer a few snippets: When the great prince first warns the other deer that man is approaching, the other deer turn as the color of autumn leaves as they flee in terror.  When Bambi defends his mate from the advances of a rival deer, he fights for the first time, and the fighting deer become silhouettes against flashes of color.  He fights for the second time to defend the same mate--from black hunting dogs.  Then Bambi and the great prince become as colored leaves as they try to flee the forest man has set on fire.

The film seems like an anthropomorphism, but it entails the decisive irony of never showing human beings--even though they are involved and part of the story.  The anthropomorphism is only apparent, for Bambi retains his original mute innocence and his connection to his childhood, even though he loses his mother; Bambi met his mate as a fawn at his mother's prodding as they were frolicking on the meadow; it is on the same meadow that Bambi's mother will later get shot; it is on the same meadow that Bambi will know the ecstasy of seeing again his childhood friend as a young stag.  He struggles against man but in the same sense that he struggles against a rival deer who only pushes and shoves.  Man is mute--but he is a part of nature, too.

Yet all of nature celebrates the deer that lives the longest, as a prince, because of the basic gentleness of the deer; it is as a crescendo in a symphony where there is symbiosis as well as dissonance.  In learning to speak, Bambi mistakenly calls a little skunk "flower"--a name that sticks.  According to the project notes for Bambi, nicely read out while showing sketches and clips as part of this 2 DVD release, the skunk is the only character given anthropomorphic license; the others are intended as poetic portrayals only of true animal characteristics.

As the skunk explains, "all us flowers sleep in the winter;" man, in hibernation, merely awaits his Spring.

This is a beautiful, beautiful film.  The best animated feature ever made; perhaps the best movie ever made.
A meaningful film for all ages.