My family doc says Asperger's is the "syndrome of the week" and I think he may be right.  A friend who works with children with special needs says that every parent wants to believe his/her child has Asperger's because it is one of the more hopeful syndromes.

Josh Harnett plays a good Asperger's guy, (or at least he acts an awful lot like my husband).  From the messy room (hot dog holders, soda cans, crap in general) to the way he walks, Mr. Harnett either studied a man with Asperger's or was directed very, very well.  My husband - definitely Asperger's afflicted (and I do mean afflicted) - had to laugh at the way Donald walked, the dislike of getting a haircut, the awkwardness, etc.  (I have lived thru all this and can vouch it is very accurate in the movie.)

The best parts of this movie are Josh Harnett's portrayal of a man with Asperger's and Radha Mitchell's portrayal of a woman with an autistic disorder.  I couldn't quite figure out what she had, it didn't seem typical Asperger's, but maybe.  Nevertheless, she is always good in everything she's in, and this movie is no exception.  And it doesn't hurt that she's exceptionally gorgeous and very natural on-screen.  She convinced me she had something wrong with her, that's for sure.  I'm glad they had her working at a hair salon or I'd have found her pretty hair styles distracting.  I mean, how can her hair look so different, so good, so often unless she is working at a hair salon?  That made sense, tho, and I enjoyed her change of hair styles.

Myself, a woman married to a man with Asperger's, I can say it's no picnic.  All of the things this movie pointed out are true, so the movie is one to watch for a general feeling of what someone with autistic spectrum disorders goes thru and for enjoyment, as well.  The ending wouldn't be believable at all except for when Isabel says to Donald that she doesn't know if their relationship will last two days or 20 years.  So you come away with a feeling that their relationship may not last, which is more realistic than -- and I don't want to be a spoiler.

The birds, animals, the sets, all very good.  The other actors who played people with varying degrees of autism, very excellent.  I enjoyed every character and would have enjoyed seeing more of them.  But that would have taken the movie off on a tangent....

I didn't care for the musical score, however.  Something about the words to the songs were a bit over the top, a little corny, and seemed to be trying too hard to explain what didn't need explaining.  I am learning that the music can really add or detract from a movie, a make or break thing.

A good movie to watch...especially if you're married to someone with a high functioning form of autism.  If you're dating someone with that disorder....my advice, forget the movie...RUN!!!  THEN, enjoy the movie!!