This initially seemed like a good movie right up to the idiotic, useless, lousy ending. This is one of those movies that you are supposed to form your own opinion about what happened. If I wanted a movie like that, I would write my own. It implies that Aliens have taken over the body of a dead man (who was struck by lightning) and now are conducting some kind of altruism experiment. But there is no climactic ending, just basically nothing. Sure there are a number of "hints" like purgatory, or the afterlife or whatever. But the risen character (the conduit for the aliens "tests") talks about his employers not about god or a supreme being. We are then to surmise that his employers (aliens) are running this "test".
I guess the author either couldn't come up with a real ending or was just too lazy at that point of writing to finish it.

In retrospect, there are some other serious problems with this story. One of the central characters, a wife and mother decides she is willing to kill someone for money. Yet she is not a stupid, illiterate, mean or loveless person, yet we are to assume that for a few luxuries she is now willing to kill someone. All of a sudden she becomes a hitman for hire? As the story went on, this action becomes completely unbelievable as it would be totally out of her character to do that. Then we are to assume that the husband is willing (brainwashed) to kill her to restore their son to all of his faculties? I didn't buy it. Again, the character of the husband is an intelligent caring person so that makes his murdering of his wife totally out of character and implausible. One reviewer said "financially overextended" about the husband and wife, I disagree. This couple appeared to be a normal working couple who like many others dreams of more but to kill someone for it? I don't think so, not in this case.

This movie could have been so much better. I would have made the incentive to push the button significantly different, not for money but to trade the life of their son for the life of someone they do not know. That would be a much tougher and understandable decision. I would have shown the aliens and imbued them with a total lack of understanding of Love so that with this experiment they are trying to find the meaning. As it is we don't really know if it is in fact aliens or a mutant gone nuts.

Overall, this movie is a really lousy, idiotic, condescending piece of drivel and totally deserving of the negative reviews.