The Narrow Margin is the film noir Midnight Run, in which LA cops travel to Chicago to pick up and transport a key witness back to LA for the trial of a gangland kingpin. The key witness just happens to be the gangster's girlfriend. The story opens with the two LA cops arriving in Chicago to pick up the witness, and while moving her to their waiting cab, the cops are attacked and one is killed. This sets the stage for the cat and mouse story that follows. 99% of the action in the Narrow Margin takes place on the train during the return trip to LA. Some of the action is predictable ... there are bad guys on the train trying to terminate the witness while the cop tries to deflect their attention ... but who cares, it's a good story. I loved seeing the interior shots of the dining car, sleepers, club car ... I wish that kind of train travel were still available today .... I'd never fly anywhere, I'd take the train.

There are a couple of interesting plot twists (which I won't reveal here so you can enjoy 'em for yourself) and although they're telegraphed earlier in the plot, you'll enjoy 'em anyway. The film's pacing slows down a bit toward the middle of the story, then picks up again as the story winds down to what feels like a "quick" ending. Casting Charles McGraw as the lead cop and Marie Windsor as the gangster's moll is convincing, and they both do a very good job of becoming their characters. The supporting cast is also well thought out and well done, and the locations, lighting, costuming, and music are all excellent in the film noir tradition.

The Narrow Margin is presented in its original 4:3 theatrical release format, the overall quality of the transfer is excellent, and I no nits to pick there. Only minimal "extras" ... commentary, audio interview, theatrical trailer, and English, French, Spanish subtitles ... boarded this DVD trip. I love watching these old film noir thrillers, and IMHO Turner Entertainment is doing an outstanding job in releasing more and more of these films each year. If you're a fan of old B/W film noir thrillers like me, The Narrow Margin is worth 71 minutes of your time.