That way, with Maurice Evans and Roddy McDowell, they'll HAVE to concede our outer-space monkey opera is respectable! (Sheesh...)

 It absolutely mystifies me what adults see in this movie. I've heard the arguement that it's ABOUT something, insofar as Heston and his ape supporters are tried for challenging an established doctrine of the ape world, but this is specious. It's easy to tell a "challenging" story about how people should stand up for intellectual freedom when you stack the deck allegorically, making the antagonists apes from another world and our hero the sole leading man type human in the entire story. (Now, if they made the hero a talking goat or sea otter, well, you would've had my attention...)
  When I watched this bilgewater for a class in college, I couldn't help but allow my mind to wander- I wondered if Charleton Heston was perceived as being the scenery-chewer that he was when this picture was released in 1968(surely SOMEBODY noticed), and I wondered to what degree the writers who worked on this script chose camp for the utterances that spout out of the mouths of Heston and the others. Were we supposed, in 1968, to think Heston was hip when he said "never trust anyone over thirty?" Or what about Heston telling Kim Hunter, "may I kiss you Doctor?"
and she(an ape doctor)replies,
"Well, all right, but you're so ugly."
But the two best ones are:
"Get your stinkin' paws off me, you damn dirty ape!"
And "Damn you! Damn you all to hell!"
at the end.
I will obey the convention and not give away the suprising
(but ridiculous) ending, and not tell you what Heston figures out at the end, just in case you're one of the 4 or 5 people left who:
1. Hasn't seen it
AND
2.Hasn't already heard about it.(the ending)
Yes, it will surprise you, but the surprise eventually seems a little sophomoric, like the whole enterprise. After the novelty of Planet of the Apes '68 wears off, you may realize that its ironies are at the level of  a precocious pre-adolescent who wants to be a writer, some day. This is a kid's movie, which wouldn't be so bad if we were spared the pretense of profundity. 
  Roddy McDowell and Kim Hunter are good as the talking scientists, given what they have to do, and Maurice Evans does supply a well-rounded villain who feels he has to protect the status quo at any cost. And this is by far the best of the series. Yes, even with Charlton Heston.