This is a tough crowd here in Amazonland. I wanted some dumb, mindless entertainment and purchased Hancock. Imagine my surprise when I liked the film for many of its railed about bad points.

First, the idea of a screw-up, alienated superhero that causes as much damage saving people as letting them get away appealed to me. It seemed like a novel, human approach rarely written in this type of genre. Imagine my next surprise getting caught up in the film's three main characters, admirably played by Jason Bateman, Charlize Theron and Will Smith.

I'm not sure what would have pleased the critics here as some wanted Smith to play Faust while the other half wanted The Fresh Prince. I just wanted to see an enjoyable film and instead got better than I bargained for.

While it is true that the film doesn't know what it wants to be, screwball comedy about screwball hero, faux drama that still comes off as fairly humane and funny and not all that faux to begin with, to a third act that tries to reconcile both prior acts and does a decent job of it - note, decent, nothing better, but that put Hancock ahead of several other summer films of 2008.

Director Peter Berg has a fine rapport with two African American (how I hate the need to mention this fact) lead actors in his last two films, in the somewhat more serious Jaimie Foxx (The Kingdom) and the seemingly off the cuff humorist found in "Will Smith" both doing excellent work in their seemingly different movies. But as I see it, both deal with similar subjects, lives the protagonist has to live with, and in each their way with people that care more than the protagonist may be comfortable with.

But I'm reading more into the film than necessary too, only I admire.

To confirm:
good acting
very good directing,
big, small and nervous laughs
earnest questions as to "Who am I?"
"Sexual tension"
All of which make for a charming, funny and at times almost heartbreak-filled, in fact, the hospital was one such time. Who do you root for? Someone will get hurt and that someone is decent In fact there's no real winner.

Or am I making too much of a fairly light heartedsummer block buster? Not meaning to be a jerk, but not every film is meant to be Citizen Cane.