This is not your father's "I, Robot."  As the final credits explains, this movie has been "inspired" by the works of the late sci-fi grandmaster Isaac Asimov.  True, the three laws of robotics are clearly spelled out during the opening credits, yes, there are characters named Del Spooner, Dr. Calvin, and Sonny, but pretty much everything else is a traditional, modern summer blockbuster take on the "misunderstood good cop against the system" story.  They even have the infamous "give me your badge" line!

However, this is not necessarily a bad thing.  Firstly, they have a nugget of brilliance by taking ideas from Dr. Asimov's works; secondly, they have a charismatic lead action star in Will Smith, who has buffed up considerably for this role (as a matter of fact, we see just how "improved" he is during an extended morning wake up scene right at the beginning of the movie); and finally, the special effects, although clearly CGI at times, are extremely well done and well integrated with the action.

Mr. Smith plays Chicago detective Del Spooner, who harbors a deep distrust and resentment towards the now ubiquitous robots in 2034 Chicago.  The script reveals via flashbacks that Spooner had a previous run-in with a perfectly well functioning robot that lead to less than perfect consequences.  Every time Spooner brings up his issues with robots, everyone around him raises an eyebrow and mention the inviolate three laws - and if you don't know them by now, you are probably locked up in a cave somewhere without internet access anyway ;-)

However, Spooner's fears seem to become reality when Dr. Lanning, the father of robotics, dies in an apparent suicide.  It seems that Dr. Lanning, played by the always exceptional James Cromwell, flung himself through a window in his 31st story office, where he was by himself...along with some robots.  Coincidentally, US Robotics (not the defunct modem maker), the company which Dr. Lanning founded, is about to roll out its newest robot model, the NS-5, which is smarter, has improved facial expressions, and can be updated wirelessly.  That an NS-5 robot named Sonny becomes Spooner's main suspect in Dr. Lanning's death raises the stakes considerably for all involved.

Dr. Susan Calvin, played by Bridget Moynahan, is assigned to assist Det. Spooner in the investigation.  She was a colleague of Dr. Lanning, and an in-house US Robotics expert in robot behavior.  Of course, there is the requisite suspicious industrial multi-billionaire, played surprisingly well by Bruce Greenwood given his brief screen time.

The movie includes some amazing set pieces, such as rollicking, physics defying clash in a freeway tunnel (just don't ask why the freeway is absolutely empty but for the key players, and how can a car do THAT, no matter how futuristic - I guess the screenwriters, too busy with the laws of robotics, forgot about the laws of physics), huge warehouses full of robots, and an amazing final showdown.

The video quality is beautiful, and the DTS soundtrack is, for lack of better words, powerful, with plenty of action for the surround speakers.  Special mention must be made of the set designs, where a near-future urban metropolis is realized in believable fashion - I applaud the decision NOT to have flying cars in this future city.

All in all, if the viewer does not sit down expecting a brainy, complex sci-fi movie, she will be more than satisfied with this movie.