This movie is pretty funny, despite the horrible reviews. I think this is a good movie and surprisingly Aniston and Sandler have chemistry- think mature chemistry. One of the funniest characters in this is Katherine's kid Michael (Griffin Gluck). Griffin Gluck had some laugh-out-loud lines which he delivered masterfully and comically. He's definitely a kid to watch.

PLOT: This film is loosely based on the 1969 movie Cactus Flower. It's a silly romantic comedy. Sandler who plays Danny Maccabee is a successful plastic surgeon in Los Angeles who feigns an unhappy marriage to get women, after having been heartbroken on his wedding day 20 years ago. The only woman aware of this is his office manager Katherine Murphy (Jennifer Aniston), a divorced mother of two. At a party, Danny meets Palmer (Brooklyn Decker), a sixth grade math teacher, without his wedding ring on, and they have a romantic night together. The next morning, she ends up finding the ring in his pocket and she assumes he was hiding the fact he was married. She refuses to date him because her parents divorced because of  adultery.

Danny goes to Palmer's school to try to get Palmer back. Instead of telling her the truth, he tells her that he is getting divorced from a woman named Devlin, named after Devlin Adams, whom his office manager, Katherine had mentioned was an old college sorority nememis.  Palmer then wants to meet Devlin, and Danny agrees. Danny asks Katherine to pose as his soon to be ex-wife for him, and they go shopping on Rodeo Drive to buy her clothes so she can look like a trophy wife. At a hotel having drinks, Danny and Palmer are greeted by a made-over Katherine, who gives them her blessing. However, after hearing Katherine talking on the phone with her kids, Palmer assumes that her kids are Danny's as well, which Danny goes along with. Danny then privately meets with Katherine's kids, Maggie (Bailee Madison) and Michael (Griffin Gluck), to get them to play along. Initially Katherine is furious, but she reluctantly agrees.

From there, they the lies get bigger and more over the top... and as you can imagine. Pretty funny movie but, not cinematic mastery by any means. Just a fun movie to watch on a Friday night with your loved one to have a few laughs.