Those that are trained, have wrote good things and rated this movie as I am rating it. The untrained, let's see Anne La Mont gave it 1 star, this is the same person that gave "Life as a House" 5 stars and "Sex in the City" 4 stars, so we know where her head's at, and don't even get me started on "Synth Pop Loverboy" who gives it 3 stars, but gives "Hampsterdance The Album" 5 stars? WTF. Trained/Untrained - You get this movie, or you don't. I happen to be a huge Tony Scott fan and also get this movie. Matter of fact, this is Tony's best work to date.

The story is of a man, Creasy (Washington) who's kinda at the end of his "career", and probably at one time was the best, the most elite. But, now as age sets in, he starts to grow a conscience, and even discusses his work with fellow friend and contact, Rayburn (Walken) about, is what they did all these years, right? While alcohol consumes Creasy, he realizes, what we assume, were horrible things and he doesn't want to go out like this. So Rayburn gives Creasy a "safe" job of being bodyguard to a young girl, Pita (Fanning) who is just starving for a role model in her life b/c her dad isn't exactly doing that great of job. You now have two characters that need each other, b/c they both want to grow. With that, Creasy starts his "healing" process by helping Pita train for swimming, and Pita finds an older friend to look up to. Just as Creasy is starting to open up and heal, the thing or in this case person that's healing him, is taken away. As in real life, what do we all do, if something is taken away, we revert back to our habits. Creasy's bad habits just happen to be his old job. In his mind, there is only one way to seek redemption. That's to do what he does best, and save the angel that found the good in him.

Though this is a heavy movie, in no way did I find this movie depressing. Unlike some goofy ass movie like "The Punisher" that had senseless violence, I feel, Creasy's character did what any of us would have done in his position. Don't forget that this is based on a true story that originally happened in Italy. The people, excuse me, the scumbags that Creasy went after are monsters that make a living off of kidnapping loved ones. It's that same mentality, that we should feel sorry for Saddam being paraded around in his underwear. Good. He's a ruthless dictator that had women raped on a regular basis, and children killed left and right. These are EVIL people folks, who deserve whats coming to them.

I don't own the new 2-disc set, but I will, come Tuesday. and Domino is just around the corner.  I can't wait : )