I just got back into the JP films pretty recently and came to the conclusion that this is the only one I'll own because it's by far my number 1 favorite out of the three. So to sum it up, my reasons for liking this film a lot is because I feel that it has a great story, special effects of course, and the cast members are great for this film. I really have no complaints about this movie compared to the other two (JP 1 and 3). I felt that this film has more thrills, action scenes, and good dialogue. I can go on and on about why I feel that this film is great, but I have to keep these reviews short. In short, the story is about a research team sent to the JP Site B island while another team approaches with another agenda, which is to capture live dinosaurs and build a zoo for them in San Diego. Jeff Goldblum, (who is the main star of this film which I'm glad about) and his team stop them basically wanting to keep the dinosaurs on their island. That's basically the main point of the film with a ton of action happening in the meantime. That's the best summery I can give. Most of the surviving characters from the first film return except, Dr. Alan Grant, and Dr. Ellie Sattler. There's of course some new good characters. Now the main parts I like about the film is that the T-Rex has more screen time, (even though there's two of them), still I like that, and at the climax of the film, a male T-Rex who is captured and brought to San Diego escapes and rampages through the city causing a great amount of destruction and killing. It's a lot like what you would see in a Godzilla film. In fact, there are Japanese tourists running from the T-Rex in the San Diego scene saying in Japanese, "I left Japan to get away from this?!" I love it considering I'm a huge Japanese Godzilla fan. Also since I brought up Godzilla, this movie and that scene by far is WAY better than the American New York "Godzilla" film, (since they both came out in the late 90's). I've always got my American giant monster/dinosaur movie fix with JP 2. However, the Japanese Godzilla beats all in my opinion. Also there's good special features, trailers, deleted scenes, and etc. In my opinion, the first JP movie was alright, but nothing I would buy. Too much talking and minimal action. Even though it had great effects and the story had meaning, it just wasn't my cup of tea. JP 3 was pointless and I felt it was just made for marquee value. This tops all in my opinion. This is what makes me like Jurassic Park and glad I got this film. It's pure goodness.