The negative reaction to the THUNDERBIRDS movie has left me reeling. I am truly aghast that such an enjoyable family film has been dismissed (and in such a vitriolic manner) by so many people.

Quite what they were expecting is beyond me, but I am reminded of the hostile reception meted out to THE PHANTOM MENACE, another enjoyable family film pulled apart by the 'adult' fans because it didn't meet their narrow view of what made a STAR WARS film 'good'.

If those with an overly negative view of THUNDERBIRDS can put their hands on their hearts and say they disliked it because it was a bad film then there's not much I can do to change their minds (I happen to disagree most strongly). But to dismiss it because it wasn't made to their expectations or that "too much was changed" is a little selfish. I have just finished watching the film again on region 2 DVD and I enjoyed it even more the second time around. Hearing director Jonathan Frakes state on the commentary that he was proud of the fact that the film only contained one single gun (which was never even fired) lifted my spirits and reinforced what he was trying to do. It's very sad to hear the commentary all the way through, as it's clear that Mr. Frakes believed in THUNDERBIRDS and that his hopes for a sequel have been completely destroyed by the cynical attitudes of modern times.

Then we have the critics... don't get me started on the critics! It seems these people are obliged to destroy at least one high-profile film release every year in an attempt to prove they know what they're talking about and this year, THUNDERBIRDS was drawn from the hat. Their reviews were unforgivable given the trash they heap praise upon (SHREK 2 was a "fun family film"?), but what's even more annoying is that the public believe them.

If I become aware of a film that interests me I will go and see it no matter what critics say. I seem to be part of a dimishing section of the (British) public that is able to 'make their own mind up' instead of believing what's fed to them by the press.

I suspect THUNDERBIRDS will do well on DVD in the run up to Christmas, but that's small consolation when you realise that a potentially brilliant franchise has been strangled at birth.

I apologise for the aggressive nature of this missive, but I feel a grave injustice has been done. THUNDERBIRDS was a superb family film and I have yet to see or hear of any children who disliked it. In a time when "heroes" are a thing of the past this film attempted to give them something pure to look up to. Now it's dead and finished. why shouldn't I be angry? I've been robbed of something special too.