5 reasons i love this movie
1- Great location
shot in Hawaii but incredibly representative of the Nigerian jungle aka ©African jungle/Heart of Darkness (copyright - Hollywood marketing material/Joey Boy Conrad) - did you see that yawning Mandrill . Reminds me of safaris i took when i was younger - well actually, that was the Kenyan jungle and the South African jungle. But seen one ©African Jungle, you've seen them all - did i mention the yawning Mandrill.
2 - Factual accuracy
Could someone in Hollywood let Nigerian President Obasanjo know
a) that the Nigerian Civil war did not end in 1970 but unbeknownst to him is still raging on
b) that he is no longer Yoruba but Ibo (heck one African tribe is as good as the other, least Hollywood research turned up a Nigerian ethnic group, he could have been made Masai you ingrates)
c) to rename his country (sounds too much like Liberia) - must be easier to do that than to research one of the numerous real life conflicts in African countries that might provide equally worthwhile drama, stuff blowing up and the added benefit of not trivialising tragedy as fairy tale.
d) that Nigerians are the new Kenyans - heck they ran all night tracking Brucie's men didn't they. There is even a quote in the movie to support this, anyhow they all track kudu all night anyway - what noble lungs they all have.
Also, all occurences of american characters in movies emphasising their native-loving credentials by passing off gobbledegook as "native" language were kept to a minimum. And NONE were passed off with meaningless subtitles
3) Dramatic complexity & Character depth
the moral dilemma associated with the conflict portrayed was stunning. Kinda reminded me of Platoon actually and the whole moral dilemma thing of Vietnam but you know in a movie-about-a-tribal-conflict kinda way. The range of emotion displayed by Noble African Native Woman Screaming A Lot on Her Way To Meet Her Baby (that's her real name - kinda like the injuns - but her friends call her NANWSALOHWTMHB) was quite remarkable. There was one scene where the utterly hopeless look on her face conveyed the tragedy of a nation looking down on the symbolic hacked off - can-no-longer-nuture - dreams of future generations - looking down on Noble African Native Women With Breasts Hacked Off After Being Raped (formerly known as Noble African Native Women With Breasts Flapping On Pages of the Nat. Geographic) (thats her real ... u know the drill).
4) Opportunities for new actors
Nothing like a film about AFRICA!! ("faint Tribal Drums in the background, fade to black") to provide loads of roles and greatly needed opportunities to play black, for blacks in the movie industry (ethnic ones for that matter). Credits included Jonas Olumo who played Jonas (don't know who that was? shame on you for not paying attention) and Man With Goat who played Man With Goat.
5) Social Reengineering -
for those who were immediately resigned to the curious appeal Hollywood has of making sure romantic interests are paired off neatly along America's racial lines (i.e. meaningful scene laden with potential romance b/w Eamonn Walker aka Da Black Seal and NANWSALOHWTMHB), this film pushed the envelope with the scene where the non-Eamonn Walker Seal died saving Noble African Native Woman Straggler Gagging To Be Killed and expired lovingly on her backside.
Can't wait for Tears of the Sun II