I love this movie. Its unique in that it goes where no other film before that time was prepared to go. Scorsese takes an in your face approach to putting it all together and succeeds in carving a place for himself in "the industry" with this indie film which gives a mere glimpse of his film making genius as he takes us on a tour of real life, street life as it takes its toll on the main characters Charlie and Johnny Boy, respectively, Harvey Keitel and Bob DeNiro. Its simple, gritty, funny, dramatic, all those things in one and the soundtrack is groovy, too. I wouldn't go so far as to say that it is Scorsese's best work, but it is good, just the same. Its so wonderful because he, as did most of the cast, grew up within that environment and so they all knew how to wear their characters properly, if you will.
Many will swear this film is more realistic than The Godfather when in actuality they are both extremely realistic. One couldn't really compare the 2 because they're about entirely different things and take place at entirely different times. "Mean Streets" is not a portrayal of mafia life, per se, but rather the livelihood of what, frankly, are a few bored and confused street punks. Though there are glimpses of "the life" explored when Charlie relates to his uncle Giovanni (Cesare Danova), who is, unquestionably, a "man of honor."
In any event, Johnny Boy's dilemma of owing money to, Michael (Richard Romanus), a hawkish fellow and an unconscionable "jerk off" of a loan shark and deciding how he is going to pay him back seems to be the guts of the film. Charlie, of course, has his own questions about life, sin, in particular, and has an obsession with sticking his hand in fire. Says something about his character. In respect to that, he plays "governor" and "caretaker," basically, over his pal Johnny Boy, who, besides owing everybody money, is beyond help. He's practically insane, or perhaps, just slightly twisted in the noodle. Some of his pleasures are derived from destroying federal property, trying to shoot the lights out on top of renowned skycrapers, imagining his cousin, played by Amy Robinson, having a seizure whilst having an orgasm, and, apparently, not paying people their money, most of all, Michael.
However, its fair to say, the last few minutes of the film everyone puts their cards on the table. After, all its the end. Johnny Boy, essentially, tells everyone to go do unpure things to themselves with carrot sticks and pickles. Charlie, surprisingly, is surprised. Michael, annoyed, says okay as he looks down the barrel of an empty pistol being pointed at him by a "far too gone" Johnny Boy. This all leaves Johnny Boy and Charlie at the point of no return. Michael takes his much anticipated revenge. The whole film you're left wondering when he's going to take the overwhelming log, that is Johnny Boy's incessant defiance, out of his posterior orifice. So, this time you're like, so, now he gets pissed, as you soon come to find everyone left mangled and hopping about like bunnies after an attempt to escape his impending wrath. The ending dissapoints me, still, because I'd like to know if Johnny Boy dies near a dumpster in the alleyway. I mean, it leaves you hanging and in just as much confusion as the players themselves were throughout the movie. Not to say its a bad ending, entirely. Just somewhat unusual. All in all, as I said, its a good film. A great film. I don't think I spoiled it too much. Even if, its worth a look.