This is the second time I watch this movie (original theatrical release), and I enjoyed it more than the first time.

The director makes a real effort to be faithful to the historical and cultural settings.  Unfortunately, every now and then his own modern concerns creep in as distracting, distorting, and ultimately useless anachronisms.

For example, the director goes out of his way to convey his own negative views of the hierarchy of the Christian Church (and/or of religious authority): The character of the bishop of Jerusalen (strangely dressed in white) is useless (or wasted) due to yet another Hollywood movie that chooses to portray bishops as self-serving hypocrites (yawn!).

His portrayal of religious "fanaticism" (a modern concept) is unbalanced and unnuanced (both within the Christian camp, and in comparison to the Muslim side).  Fortunately, Scott does include the character of the soldier-priest who mentors Bloom's character, and gives him sound and wise spiritual advice.  Unfortunately, the warrior-priest character appears only 3 or 4 times.

There are also some implausible situations (like when the Christian defendors of Jerusalem celebrate their surrendering the city).

I do think that Orlando Bloom was not the best choice for this role.  I do like the guy, but here he lacks the gravitas that the role demanded.  Even his walking looked excessively "teeny", youthful, like the walk of some surfer boy trying to get the chicks to look at him.  The leather trousers didn't help either.

I'm exaggerating, of course.  But the point is that Orlando Bloom doesn't have (yet) the dramatic skill and presence that this type of movie demands (this movie is no "Pirates of the Caribbean", you know).

Overall, there's plenty to savor in this movie.  If we put our imagination to work, we can move past the anachronisms and out-of-place criticisms the director forces on us, and enjoy the movie as if we were right there, defending the city.  I'm looking forward to watching the director's cut.