Lots of people say the BBC series this movie is based on is better than the Hollywood remake. It's a good series and has an amiable scruffiness, to match its hero -- but in the Hollywood rewrite, its plotting has been cleaned up by pros, and it needed some cleaning up.

The original series (see Wikipedia) was made up as it went along, and the writer changed villains in the middle. There are not just loose ends, which several of the critics here have discussed, but loose ends that stick out and hit the viewer in the eye. I can't give away the plot, but the loose ends are LIKE a killer planning to hide his activities who writes letters to the papers about them.

The Hollywood rewrite improves or gets rid of these clumsinesses.

The love affair between the lead and the congressman's wife was a big problem in the tv series, and can be more fully discussed here because it doesn't give away any of the mystery plot points. In the tv series, the wife is upset her husband was having an affair, so she comes on to the husband's best friend. The husband freaks, but continues to see the best friend because he needs his help -- then every once in a while insults the best friend because, hey, the guy is sleeping with his wife. The wife plans to go back with the husband as soon as she finds out he was framed, even in the very first super hot days of her passion for the other guy. Finally she gets mad at both of them because they're not considering her ... instead of being grateful that neither of them is mad at her! In the end she walks off hurt, though she's gotten sex, love and apologies from both and could stay with either man if she chose.

In the movie, by contrast, the affair between the wife and the best friend is long in the past, and the husband has gotten over resenting it, though he sniffs about it at one point. The wife kind of wants to start up again with the hero but he tells her no, so she is almost forced back to her husband. All very mature and quite understandable. Hollywood seldom passes up the chance for heated sex play, but Hollywood was smart enough to see it didn't quite work in the BBC series and wouldn't work in the Hollywood rewrite either. Both Hollywood lovers looked middle-aged and sensible; the BBC wife looked like 40-year-old sex goddess and her lover looked like a helpless child when she came after him. Score: Hollywood 1, BBC 0 on understanding of adult sex.

I watched both shows in the evening. It took three days, two one-hour episodes a day, to get through the BBC series. It took one evening to get through the Hollywood remake. Shorter is better. The political issue everyone was getting all excited about was a Maguffin, and changed between London and Hollywood, as if to prove it didn't matter what it was. The BBC series had muddy exposition and didn't start to move until its third hour, getting truly fast-paced only in its last third. The Hollywood version was crisp and fast-paced throughout.

All these improvements are only to be expected from a professional rewrite on a high-budget production. Hollywood has the resources to do this stuff right, and this is the kind of thing Hollywood specializes in.