Put together a piece that has both a beautiful heartwarming story set in a slower more gracious time than now and the greatest actress to ever act on the American stage or movie screen and you have THE TRIP TO BOUNTIFUL.  The 1940's was a time when older people didn't have the option to be sent to nursing homes in America so that family members didn't need to be responsible for their elderly's welfare or for assuring that their last days could end with a certain amount of dignity.

Carrie Watts, played perfectly by Geraldine Page had moved in with her lone surviving son and his wife because she had left her girlhood home when the land there was too worn out to provide her with a living after the death of her husband and two of her children.  After twenty years of being away from the tiny Texas town called Bountiful and six years of being cooped up in a two-room apartment in Houston, Texas, Carrie yearned to return to her "home" where she could dig in the dirt and make something grow again.  She has made several failed efforts at getting there already before the movie's opening and the strange dance that ensues between her and her son and daughter-in-law is her struggle to make her dream come true while the two of them make every effort to prevent it.

TRIP TO BOUNTIFUL was Page's final performance as she died shortly after receiving the academy award for 1985's best actress.  Hers was an epoch of actresses who were trained to "overact" especially in movies.  I once heard Bette Davis say near the end of her life that the trouble with actors and actresses today was that they brought too much realism to their roles.  She and the actresses of her day were told to make their characters "larger than life", to maintain a certain distance from the audience.  Too much realism was frowned upon by directors of the day.  Geraldine Page though started out as a stage actress and her performances always rang true at their very core.  She never did or said anything on stage or screen that struck a wrong chord.  I believed her in every role and she was never better than she was in this her last movie.  The Academy got it right that time.