Not since Chicago in 2003 has there been a film musical with as much raw energy as RENT. This is a fitting movie and done with the true intention that Jonathan Larson would have imagined it being translated into film. As a matter of fact (honey, I know this act), the opening number in the movie version of RENT is "Seasons of Love".
RENT has of course enough of a rudimentary plot to cement together the emotional moments and great vocals, which are the film's raison d'être.

Mimi Marquez is a stripper Catscratch Club who idolizes her upstairs neighbor, Roger and tries to seduce him.  However, Roger is afraid to let himself fall in love with Mimi because he is infected with HIV and although attracted to her, is afraid of her ultimate rejection. Throw in the gay couple who unfortunately already have AIDS, Angel Dumott Schunard and Tom Collins who are more fortunate and are a match made in heaven.  Lastly you have Maureen Johnson who is an art performer and homeless advocate who has dumped Mark for another woman, Joanne Jefferson.  Mark Cohen narrates the film delivered exquisitely by Anthony Rapp. And they all have cinematic chemistry, especially since all except two are the original Broadway cast members.  The plot revolves around them not being able to pay their rent to the part-owner and former roommate, Benny.

There are not enough superlatives to describe RENT, and I fear my review will not do it justice. This film has moments, just like the original Broadway show, that will leave you laughing.  It is not a comedy however, and if you have a heart, you will become teary-eyed and empathize and love all these characters.  In fact, you want to become their friends, even be one of them!

If you are familiar with the Broadway version, you will notice that in "One Song, Glory", as Roger bolts that tune out, you catch past glimpses of what his life with April was like.  This is a wonderful feature that the film version could deliver where the Broadway version could not. Another plus, among the many, is "Tango Maureen" where Mark meets Joanne and they tango.  After Mark falls down they go into a tango extraordinaire that could only be delivered on film.  Very tasteful, very classy.

RENT is tender, colorful, in-your-face, exuberant entertainment. I'd give it 10 stars if I could. And if you don't take the opportunity to see it while it's on the "Big Screen", then you're doing yourself a huge injustice. I beg you to buy this dvd, you will NOT be sorry!

[...]