Alien was an interesting contrast to Star Wars.  That's where the cult started. Alien had a lot of good hard nosed reality to it. In the characters and their interactions who knew what hard work was all about. Alien saw a group of people fight and die due to human weaknesses and strengths.  Aliens mopped up and tried to finish off the aliens.

They shifted from the miner's hard life to the Marines and succeeded in watching a non-technological species haress, frighten, and kill off the vast majority. Aliens also had an interesting survivor in a little eight year old girl Nute.  She also led the Marines in how to survive the aliens, for a little while at least.

Bill Paxton from Terminator gives another great performance of a punk.  He's absolutelly hillarious in both Terminator and Aliens!  Michael Bien also comes from Terminator to give another good performance to fight off something bigger than a human. Another James Cameron find and favorite was introduced in Aliens, Jenette Goldstein.  She also later appreas in Terminator 2 and Titanic!

No movie or book is perfect; so, I've gotten in the habit of starting with a four star no matter what.  Five star . . . i don't know what's five star.  Can I find fault with Aliens?  Yes!  There's the awkward gravity fields when the marines are free-falling from orbit; now, wait a minute!  First, they're in orbit; so, just releasing them wouldn't cause them to just start free-falling; if them, then why not the mother ship?  There's not much to find fault with the move though; but, i did find something, so, my principle of starting with four stars no matter what works here.

I finish with noting that I've thought of a solution to Ripley and the Marines problem of dealing with all those aliens and still have seventeen days to go!  Simply pack that marines battlestation sports car with food and head far away from the atmospheric processing plant . . . till it can't run no more.  Why would the aliens think to search outside the atmospheric processing plant for more hosts?  Private Hudson would have said F'in A to that!