If your a fan of John Garfield like I am then Christmas came early this year when Olive Films released two of his classic films on blu ray this week(July 31). "Body and Soul"(1947) is probably his most famous film and he deserved his only Oscar Nomination for Best Actor for his performance. Boxing has been a subject matter for films for many years going all the way back to "The Champ"(1931) in which Wallace Beery won an Oscar for Best Actor and all the way to "Raging Bull"(1980) which brought Robert DeNiro a Best Actor Oscar also. In between there was not only "Body and Soul" but "Champion"(1949) with Kirk Douglas and also "Rocky"(1976) with Sylvester Stallone which became a franchise. Those of you who bought or owned the regular DVD of "Body and Soul" from Republic should be very pleased with this new blu ray transfer. An independant production originally released thru United Artists the print appears to be from a fine grain master postive but not the original negative. The reason I say that is because there's still a lot of grain and specks in some of the scenes but the close ups are crystal clear. Except for some of the fight scenes and some transition shots, James Wong Howe's beautiful cinematography looks great on blu ray. All the performances are top notch, including not only Garfield but the supporting players as well. Anne Revere, Canada Lee, Lloyd Gough, William Conrad, and Lilli Palmer all give fine performances. Sadly, except for Conrad and Palmer, most of the principles were blacklisted a few years later, including the screenwriter Abraham Polondky who directed Garfield the following year in "Force of Evil". Once again it's the writing and authentic dialogue that makes this picture. The scenes between Canada Lee and John Garfield are very touching. Friends in real life the stess from their blacklisting probably contributed to their early deaths. Ironically, they both died within ten days of each other in May, 1952. Lee was 45 and Garfield only 39. It was a sad double loss for all of us fans of these two remarkable human beings. This year marks the 60th Anniversery of John Garfield untimely death and Olive Films is doing him justice by releasing "Body and Soul" and "Force of Evil" on blu ray. Hopfully with Warner Home Video releasing "The Postman Always Rings Twice" in October, this great actor will get re-discovered by a whole new generation of fans.