I think that this film is a great triumph for Mr. Eastwood. It is a beautiful and moving film which shows the brutality of war on many levels. It is possibly one of the best war movies ever made, and also incredibly different from any other war movie. You can not help but be moved by the plight of the men - they are facing inevitable defeat. Whether or not this defeat is warranted is never addressed here. The movie does not touch into Japanese atrocities that started the war, but it does give a clear glimpse of the military imperialism that sent these men to inevitable death or imprisonment.

Ken Watanabe is superb in his role as Lieutenant General Kuribayashi. One of the most disturbing and moving scenes was to hear their last radio transmission from Tokyo headquarters broadcasting a song sung by children from Kuribayashi's home town. The words of the song are disturbing as the young children's voices plead with the men to die bravely for their country. It is in moments like this that you see the psychological brainwashing that the Japanese military elite had subjected their military to.

I think it is important to remember that Letters from Iwo Jima is a companion piece to Flags of our Fathers. One should not watch Letters without seeing Flags. Any complaints about revisionism lack any merit when these two films are seen more as a whole. No one is trying to rewrite history and state that what the Japanese government did wasn't wrong. But that is not the main thrust of these films. It is about the greater meaning about the morality of war and of soldiers sent out to fight for an idealogy they may or may not believe in. THat at least is what we see in Letters from Iwo Jima, through the eyes of a baker who never wanted to go to war and seeks only to get back to his wife and newborn daughter and the fears of a young dishonored military policemen who with a change of heart realizes there is no honor in death and does not want to die. These moments humanize the Japanese soldiers as Flags did for the American GIs. And that, I believe, is Mr. Eastwood's greatest directorial achievement since Unforgiven.