Amazon doesn't seem to be separating these reviews, but this review is for the Blu-ray box set of all three films from Alliance.

At roughly $15 a pop for each film, it was well worth the purchase.

The basics: the transfers are in 1080i, not 1080p, but my player converts it to 1080p at 60Mhz anyway, as I'm sure most players will. Regardless of the 1080i, the transfer on all three films is very strong and certainly the best quality currently out there. The colors are nice and vibrant without overpowering the scenes, and some shots are very striking in their detail, especially if all you've seen are the regular DVDs. The first film looks like an entirely new movie thanks to the transfer, especially considering it was never even released in anamorphic widescreen. Certain shots were very surprising, most notably Tatum's scene in the garage--the Ghostface costume looks very glittery and sparkles on the screen, which is something that caught my eye immediately. It's as if the killer has rolled around in glitter. I never noticed it before.

The soundtrack is fine for all I can tell, but I don't have a surround system, just my TV speakers.

The films are all presented in their original 'R' rated versions--no cuts.

There are no extras whatsoever, so that may be disappointing to some. However, I personally don't watch the extras on my movies anyway.

The real issue here was the packaging. Despite being very nice to look at (the outer sleeve slides off much like a TV box set, and it's a cool blue color), "Scream 2" and 3 were incredibly hard to remove from the packaging. On one hand, it's nice they're secure for shipping, but man I had to practically break the things to get them out. "Scream" is on the other side of the "book" (it flips open) and I had no issues removing it, but I had hell with parts 2 and 3. I didn't even put them back in the case after removing them, I stuck them in separate DVD cases to avoid going through that crap again.

All in all, I cannot imagine any future release looking much better than this. There is some -slight- grain in a few scenes throughout the films, but the image is so sharp and crisp it honestly didn't bother me. I would say the quality is pretty excellent and I was very satisfied. They looked like new films.

If you are tired of waiting for the U.S. to release these films on Blu-ray and don't mind the lack of extras, you can't go wrong picking this up. The films look great, and at $15 a pop they're a bargain. And unless the U.S. release is something amazing, I cannot imagine they would look much better.