Fred Leuchter is vain and pathetic. He can easily be imagined jury-rigging the toaster to electrocute the family pet. He is Cree-pee, with a capital "C". Leuchter, the son of a Massachusetts prison employee-on "Take the Kids to Work Day", his father let him sit in the electric chair-invented the lethal injection machine that is in use in the death chambers of several states. He is, or was (he doesn't get much work anymore), a self-styled "execution technician". He has tinkered with electric chairs, gas chambers, and gallows in his effort to make the extinguishing of human life by the state more "humane", for Leuchter says he believes in capital punishment, not "...capital torture".

The first part of Errol Morris's excellent documentary about Leuchter, "Mr. Death", deals with Leuchter's grisly human extermination work. Here, Leuchter seems almost like some quirky basement inventor, as he proudly shows off his deadly "equipment". The film shifts gears when Leuchter, for some reason, is hired as an expert witness by Ernst Zundel ("The Hitler We Loved and Why") to aid his defense in a Toronto trial against the charge of publishing Holocaust denial material-a crime in Canada-by traveling to Aushwitz and two other death camps to gather samples from gas chambers and crematoria to be examined for cyanide. No cyanide, no Holocaust-The Myth of the Six Million. Ignoring for the moment that Leuchter was completely  unqualified to conduct any sort of scientific experiment-his formal education ended with an undergraduate degree in history and he is not the engineer he claimed to be-it is more than offensive to see him, oddly clad, owlishly bespectacled, chipping away with hammer and chisel-unauthorized-in this liminal place, a place where the living meet the dead, in an attempt to prove that the dead, so many dead, weren't dead at all.

Leuchter's testimony was shredded in court and Zundel convicted but Leuchter's "research", now dubbed the "Leuchter Report",  has been embraced by the Holocaust deniers; millions of copies are in print in many languages. It is nothing more than a grubby little anti-Semitic tract

spit-shined to a pseudo-scientific sheen.

Mr. Morris does not swat the tautological by directly confronting Leuchter and the whole Holocaust denial mob. What he does, and he does it brilliantly, is show Leuchter's journey from the merely odd to the truly malevolent. Leuchter portrays himself as an innocent "scientist" who was destroyed-no job, no wife, no prospects-because he spoke the truth. Mr. Morris does not treat Leuchter with any undeserved sympathy but shows him for what he is, for what he has become-the Banality of Evil, and a

Willing Executioner.