Although many of the performers are not well known and their idiosyncratic styles will be off putting to some, it pays to stick with this film.  (Then again, if you're a Leonard Cohen fan, you probably haven't been pining for a Mariah Carey version of "Hallelujah" anyway.)

The documentary is pretty much a straight up mix of interviews, archival material and footage from the tribute concert.  The camera work during the concerts is beautifully restrained and static.  It is edited in the modern documentary style that has been popular for several years now.  Not as slick as "Fog of War", but nicely done.  It does not have the sense of tragedy of "The Devil and Daniel Johnston", it revels more in the life and craft of a poet.  In fact, one would be hard pressed to find two such polar opposite songwriters and the cards life dealt them.

The Leonard Cohen interviews are great.  Sometimes quite touching.  The performances vary from okay to good to great.  That said, the musicians, and especially the back up singers, are tremendous and almost always spot on.  This is not a knock on the lead singers; they are all extremely talented in their own right.  It's just that some of their quirks and treatment of the material will not be for everyone.  Rufus Wainwright is a favorite of Cohen's but his vocal style can become grating.  (His version of "Hallelujah" is a distant number 3 on my "definitive cover" scale, after John Cale and Jeff Buckley.)  Seeing that Linda Thompson's voice is still intact after all she's been through made me pray for a reunion tour with ex-husband Richard.  Their offspring, Teddy Thompson delivers one of the best songs of the film and will be one of the better justifications for buying the soundtrack.  Beth Orton beautifully sings "Sisters of Mercy" straight up and you will not want to take your eyes off her as she gives it her understated all.  For me, Antony was the unknown (little known?) revelation of the film.  His version of "If It Be Your Will" should become the standard.  Incredible.  Yes, they edit LC speaking into the middle of the song, but what he says is essential to understanding his creative force when writing and Antony's channeling of that force on stage.  "A lot of the songs are just the response to what struck me as beauty, whatever that curious emanation, from a being or an object or a situation or a landscape...  That had a very powerful affect on me as it does on everyone.  And I prayed to have some response to the things that were so clearly beautiful to me, and they were alive."

Considering where Cohen's voice is now, and considering what others can do for his songs, the filmmakers probably got it right in choosing to limit the number times we actually hear LC sing.  But that one song we see on film is well worth it, with U2 as the ultimate backup lounge band, humble and gracious servants to the master.