Brian De Palma's Sisters is a really terrific horror thriller, released in 1973. I won't go into plot details. It's about siamese (conjoined) twins, but the less you know about the story the better. Sisters was De Palma's first real foray into Hitchcock territory, though I'm told his 1968 debut Murder a la Mod (unseen by me) does venture into similar turf. Though it will surely be dismissed as just another Hitchcock imitation by De Palma detractors, Sisters is really a creative and well made film. In the fascinating interview included on the Criterion DVD, De Palma talks about his creative process. He starts with an idea then builds his story around visual concepts such as a murder set-piece. The standout set-piece by far in Sisters is the apartment murder and subsequent cleanup. In this scene, De Palma uses split screen to wonderful effect. It is perhaps one of the most memorable scenes in all of De Palma's oeuvre. The later scenes at the mental hospital are quite memorable as well, particularly the black and white dream sequences which are quite disturbing. The film is anchored by terrific performances by Margot Kidder, Jennifer Salt and the creepy William Finley. You also get a wonderful cinematic score by the legendary Bernard Herrmann.

Sisters is a great example of Brian De Palma's "pure cinema". Watching the ways De Palma plays with perspective and voyeurism is just fascinating. He is one of the great visual storytellers. Nearly every frame of a De Palma film is filled with fascinating visuals which aren't there just for eye candy but truly enhance and deepen the film experience. For me, a De Palma film is a joy to watch, in spite of the often lurid subject matter, as I feel a sense of excitement and exhiliration in his directing. De Palma knows and loves cinema and, like Jean-Luc Godard before him, De Palma brings his knowledge of film to his best work and advances the medium while paying respect to his progenitors. I recommend the Criterion Collection DVD which I believe is currently the only version in print. However this film is worth checking out however you can find it.