The Shadow over Innsmouth is a true Lovecraft Classic. As one who waits for a faithful movie of this classic other true fans must also continue to do so. Sadly.

CTHULHU starring Jason Cottle and to a much lesser degree Tori Spelling was a hopeless "mish-mash" of disjointed elements. Production quality and soundtrack had some redeeming supportive elements. The story however was a tragic waste of viewer time.

LOW POINTS OR "High Points" not used:

Zadok Allen - Was met briefly and then forgotten. His Story muddled with too many bits of badly described information and then not used. Sometimes less is more. That philosophy should have been used here.

"Innsmouth Look" - There were NO characters showing any such trait or any evolving to this type of horror in the movie. Not even at the end. All people remained normal.

The Gilman House - The Marsh character (Cuttle) returned to visit, and stay, with his parents at the family wake. There was NO Hotel chilling escape.

Innsmouth - The venerable old Massachusetts seaport of Innsmouth was a contemporary town. Although understood as potentially necessary to a lower budget movie it was sad to see and didn't add anything to the story.

Marsh Family - Unlike the Lovecraft short story this family actually existed in the present. They were, unfortunately, more concerned about the lead characters' sexual orientation. This was another non-essential element woven deeply into the story line and even the ending scene. It was not needed and distracting.

Tori Spelling - Sadly her talent was not used fully. Lean times in Hollywood evidently. Casting her as a Heterosexual rapist did her no justice and was certainly a meaningless plot twist. The offspring of this tristful event were viewed thru the eyes of the victim ( Jason Cottle) but not seen, again, by the movie viewer.

As it states on the back of the DVD - "The Terrifying REINVENTION of the classic HP Lovecraft tale". It was that. And not in any meaningful way.

If you want a movie that tries in some meaninful form to bring more elements of "Shadow over Innsmouth" to life buy "DAGON" a Stuart Gordon film. Although not exacting it does endeavor to keep the chills and horror of HP Lovecraft alive.

If you buy this film expecting anything, even remotely, relating to Lovecraft's tale you will be deeply dissapointed as I was.

Faithfully, Still Waiting in the Midwest