Remember Jaws 3D when both of the Brody brothers were working together to build Sea World in Florida?  The oldest Brody boy was a welder and married to a blond marine biologist.  The Brody boy knew a lot about welding but not much about fish.

In this film, both Brody boys are back, except that they are played by different actors, have different occupations, and different personalities for instance, the main Brody boy no longer welds, but is now a marine biologist, that's OK though, because his wife is now a welder.

Their mother is the same actor from the first two films, and the photo of their dad looks the same, he's not actually in the film as he apparently was scared to death of great white sharks sometime after the second film.  I'm not joking about that.  That's how they explain Roy Scheider's absence.  He had a heart attack because he was scarred of sharks.  Really.

Really this is a story of a feud between two families as a member of the Jaws family is upset that the Brody's keep killing his or her relatives and plots revenge against the family.  First he or she kills Sheriff Brody's youngest son who is no longer a theme-park-building-cowboy but a New England cop like his dad, then swims super-fast to get to the Bahamas around the same time Mrs. Brody and her family get there.  Keep in mind that Brody's don't swim from New England to the Bahamas but instead take a plane.  That is one fast shark.  Maybe I'm being too sarcastic.  Perhaps it's a different shark than the one in Amity Island.  Maybe the one in the Bahamas is a member of a Miami shark cartel and was paid by the shark in New England.

Oh, and why did Mrs. Brody leave her home in Maine?  Because it was on a body of land surrounded by water; in other words, an island, and she was getting kind of freaked out by sharks.  So she wisely moves to South Dakota where there are no sharks.  No, just kidding, she moves to The Bahamas, which isn't just one island, it's like seven-hundred islands.  See, much better.

The shark in this film looks a little long in the tooth.  Some of the shots of it feature a broken dorsal fin that's barely connected; it just kind of flops back and forth.  Maybe it's the same model from the previous films.  If so, maybe this belies some deeper subplot to the franchise.  Perhaps the previous sharks didn't explode but have been somehow secretly replacing the fine Brody family members they normally serve here with different people.  Maybe that's what was really bothering Sheriff Brody.Later in the film the dorsal fin got better.

Anyway, the dialog is a little better than the third film, which was really bad, but the lack of plot required the director to have lots of scenes that go on and on and on but that don't add anything to the story.  It's sort of like the movie is made out of nothing more than deleted scenes.  Also, just as a side point, most of the film takes place in the Bahamas, in the sun, yet nobody wears sunglasses.  Nobody.  Well, there was this one guy, but he wore the flip up kind and always had them in flip up mode.  I found this harder to swallow than many of the other inconsistencies that are a constant feature of this movie.  And why do great white sharks blow up when you shoot them.  And knowing that all you have to do is shoot them, why not shoot them earlier in the film?

On a positive note, it's one of the best looking Jaws films in that the print looks mostly good and is bright and colorful; everything looks as if it was filmed last year.  Also, Michael Cain is in it.  That's good.