I've owned hundreds of laserdiscs and DVDs over the past few decades and I have to tell you this release is quality form the ground up. Here are a few reasons why I think this is my favorite version of any movie I've purchased.

1.) Main Menu. The main menu resembles the light display form the end of the film and the lights blink in time with the notes of the music. While this isn't a huge deal, it shows the level of detail that the producers of this version went to in order to make the ownership experience better. While the lights play in time to the music, scenes from the film appear across the light rectangle, giving a glimpse into what you're about to watch.

2.) Soundtrack. The DTS ES soundtrack is amazing and I think this is the first time this film has been given the DTS-ES treatment. Deep rumbling bass for the ships remind me of some of the things that made me love this movie when I saw it when I was only 12 years old.

3.) Image. Holy cow! It hasn't looked this good since 1977! Colors are rich and the print is pristine. There are some minor artifacts in a few sections, like when Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfuss) is being questioned in the government trailer, but they look like film grain issues not compression artifacts.

4.) Content. The two-disc set is loaded with features. The best of these is the "View From Above" setting, which shows you interactively where scenes differ from the original 1977 version. A text sentence and small image are displayed when something differs, giving a terrific, at-a-glance look at the differences among the three versions of the film. With three versions, it's hard to keep all the changes straight just looking at the included full-color, printed chronology but the on-disc version of this is stellar. Simply the best presentation I've seen.

5.) Extras. The original 1977 featurette and a new, 30th anniversary documentary are included along with trailers. This disc is loaded! The interviews with Spielberg were riveting, and Richard Dreyfuss, Teri Garr, Melinda Dillon and "one-take" Cary (Child "Barry" in the movie) all provide terrific insight to how this was made. On top of that you get a full-color reproduction of the movie poster with a chronology of the three versions on the back-side. The poster measures about 13 x 17, but that's not exact I didn't use a ruler I'm eyeballing. There's also a full-color booklet (about 30 pages) outlining the creation of the movie with some great behind the scenes photos.

In short, this disc had everything I could've wanted and more.