My deaf daughter introduced me to this movie. Since becoming a fairly proficient signer and involved with the deaf community myself, it was interesting to ponder all the strongly-held arguments among the hearing and deaf family members across three generations concerning the cochlear implant (C.I.). I can see both sides - and there are no easy answers. The documentary did an outstanding job of capturing the issues - and the angst - of feeling strongly about a position that is jeopardizing family unity.
  My daughter, who majored in Deaf Ed and later earned a Masters degree, was post-lingually deafened (age 5), so she has good speech. Her hearing loss is at the profound level, only slightly helped with a powerful hearing aid. However, she has decided against being implanted, mainly because she is a single mom, and knows that no surgery is without risk, and doesn't want to take any chances with possible complications. However, this brings up an issue that has not been addressed in the movie or in the reviews (I read them all). More often than not, Deaf parents give birth to hearing children, as did my daughter. It is heart-wrenching for me to see my granddaughter (a precocious 4-year-old) trying to make her mom understand her when she wants to say something she doesn't know how to sign (or there isn't a sign for). After attending day care and now pre-school, my granddaughter is growing up in the hearing world, as is expected, and as her horizons expand, there's more she wants to talk to my daughter about. She is a well-adjusted and very happy child, but I think how much easier it would be if my daughter had an implant (although my daughter is a great lip-reader). So when deciding about getting the C.I. for one's self or their child, it would be wise to consider the ramifications for their their future (or current) offspring as well.
I think my daughter is doing an excellent job raising her child, and I respect her right to refuse the C.I., even though I don't agree with it.
Any way you look at it, IF a child (hearing or Deaf) is already actively involved with family members who are part of the deaf community, they will continue to embrace this culture, as my granddaughter is doing. And being part of both cultures is definitely a win-win situation!
  I highly recommend this well-presented and challenging movie.