At the age of nine my interest in metaphysical and spiritual subjects started to come to the fore.  As a child at that tender age I became a fervent reader of all sorts of spiritual/metaphysical books and while the books that I read in those early formative years were not difficult or deeply esoteric they were the foundation that I would use as a launching pad for deeper understanding of the spiritual laws that guide our lives.

Through reading hundreds of books on spiritual/metaphysical subjects the books that gave me the deepest understanding of the world of energies were the books of Alice A. Bailey and especially "A Treatise on Cosmic Fire".  While that book did great justice in explaining the world of energies as seen  through the eyes of Alice Bailey and the "Tibetan" who was the spiritual entity that she channelled it suffices to say that reading that book was not a task that was accessible to everyone.  Due to the complexity of that book the audience of that material was necessarily limited.

It was not until I came across the books that Neil Donald Walsh has channelled that I saw many of the spiritual attitudes that I had learned through the years being presented in a format that was easily accessible for the general public and gaining general acclaim.  When I was introduced to Esther and Jerry Hicks and the teachings of Abraham on the DVD `Introducing Abraham - The Secret Behind "The Secret"' I recognised parts of deep spiritual/metaphysical teachings that I had learnt over many years of study.  These teachings are being presented in a format that is accessible to the general public and the core message of such a high quality as to be able to take our thinking "to the leading edge of thought", to quote the words of Abraham.

While it is not openly highlighted there is an anticipation within all facets of Christianity as well as in popular "New Age" thinking, in all totalling hundreds of millions of spiritual seekers, that the reappearance of the Christ is imminent.  I would like to suggest that the reappearance of the Christ is already taking place through a multitude of individuals including Neil Donald Walsh and Esther and Jerry Hicks and will increase as more and more individuals summon the Christ consciousness through the Law of Attraction.

My challenge to you, dear reader, is that you add your voice to those that are summoning the Christ consciousness through the Law of Attraction.  Let your first step be to introduce yourself to the message that Abraham has to offer and let your second step be to align yourself to the vibration that is needed to draw that consciousness into our physical reality.