I cannot think of a movie adaptation of a "classic" novel in which the actors were more suited for their roles than OF MICE AND MEN (THE CRUCIBLE is close. . .).  No offense to Burgess Meredith (from the 1939 version), but John Malkovich was born to play this role (Lennie)!  His physical mannerisms (walking, sitting, working in the fields, etc.), his vocal stylings, and his slightly cross-eyed status all contribute to the overwhelming "Lennie-ness" he conveys.  His smile is the one I see when I think of George telling the "tend the rabbits" story; his voice is what I hear when I read the book now.  Malkovich IS Lennie (or vice versa. . .).  Gary Sinise is perfect as the quiet and understated George--he never tries to steal the show but lets the script and the plot situations stay in top priority position.  The supporting actors are all extremely good, from Curly, his wife, Candy, Crooks, Slim, and the farm hands--no weak links in the chain whatsoever, which is rare.  Exceptional performances all the way around, with great leadership from the two primary actors.

The script is as good as you can possibly get from an adaptation.  It is not "word-for-word," but it is close enough for me as a high school English teacher.  The differences, both additions and omissions, are not significant enough to draw any criticism for me, and they provide for interesting analysis (compare/contrast) for my students.

Despite the exceptional quality of this movie, the kids still like it!!  Some very good movies are just too "good" for high school students to appreciate (THE GREAT GATSBY comes to mind), but this one hits them hard.  They identify very easily with George and Lennie's plight (with some help from a history lesson in Depression era economics), Lennie (Malkovich) is an incredibly likable guy, despite his obvious weaknesses and social/mental deficiencies; George scores major points from the kids for his incredibly kind treatment (for the most part) of Lennie.  The students are drawn to the very compelling social situation into which Lennie's actions force the two workers.  The climax of the movie is shattering.  Even though they know what is coming, the visual realization is difficult to watch without emotional reaction.  I believe Steinbeck would have given Sinise "two thumbs up" for the last ten minutes of the movie, in particular.

Bottom Line:  You're not going to find a much more compelling story, either in print or in a movie.  The themes may seem slightly outdated when looked at in the microcosm of the Depression Era, but Steinbeck presented a big picture with these two characters and their plight that even today's kids can appreciate.  Worth a rental for sure.  Worth a purchase for me.  Worth a purchase for every high school in the country!