This movie is funny and entertaining and amazingly informative. It has so many pieces of useful advice that it's hard to catch them all. Furthermore, it passes along this information in a way that got my wife's attention in a way that I hadn't been able to.

A year and a half ago I was 35 pounds overweight. I ate like the standard American. I finally decided to do something about it so I did some research on the Internet, trying to focus on the science-based research. Following the advice that I found, I lost that weight in 4 months and have kept it off ever since by continuing to follow the advice. This movie captured the basic idea of all that research: low fat is bad for you, low cholesterol is worse than high cholesterol for most people, don't eat high carb food.

He does the best job I've ever seen at disproving the lipid hypothesis which nearly every doctor and media outlet promote: 1) Eating high fat foods give you high cholesterol. 2) High cholesterol leads to heart disease. Well, he makes it really clear that both of these statements are false. It's shocking to anyone who has been fed these lines (lies) for year. He explains all of this in a simplified manner that is within reach of everyone.

The other points that he make extremely well relate to what it is that actually does cause heart disease and what we should do and eat in order to minimize our risk of getting it. Again, he's funny and informative. It's hard to believe that this combination can exist when talking about nutrition, but he does it.

I added this to my library so that I can heartily recommend it to my family and friends. I read (and loved) "Protein Power" by Eades & Eades, "Good Calories, Bad Calories" by Taubes, and the "Great Cholesterol Con" by Kendrick but not everyone is going to spend the time and effort to get through these books. However, this movie presents the highlights of these books in 100 easy-to-watch minutes. If you are intrigued after watching this movie, then I highly recommend those books. And if you were not intrigued, then you weren't paying attention. ;)