This movie is horrible! As a native Hawai'ian, I was excited to see and support a historical movie detailing a significant period in my history. I had hoped greatly for a masterpiece. I was, instead, greatly disappointed.

This feels like a made-for-TV movie: amatuerish and poorly put together. There are several scenes which serve merely to develop the viewer's sympathy for Ka'iulani, begging us to be overly sensitive towards our heroine. While the main acting is acceptable, the other characters like Alice, Archie, Miss Barnes, etc, are shallow, one-sided, and rather dull. They exist solely to enhance Ka'iulani and funnel the plot towards her own turmoils.

Though the dialog has its moments (like the lovely conversation at dinner in regards to food and politics), the whole movie gets sidetracked by just another fated love story... the same one we've seen a million times: Girl and boy from different situations, finances, countries, and dispositions are supposed to hate eachother, but end up falling madly in love. Been there with Austen, saw it in Pochahontas; we need something new. There are also many significant events in Ka'iulani's life that are not portrayed in the movie. They tend to "represent" her, rather then interpret historical fact.

While I cannot fault Q'Orianka Kilcher for not being native Hawai'ian, were there really no native women good enough for the role? I definitely know that I'm not alone in feeling this way. This being part of my history, my blood, my people, I get rather offended when another ethnicity is picked to portray us (it's like Blue Crush all over again, but WORSE). Hawai'ians already get lumped into the "brown people" category far too often for my tastes. Also, I have a personal qualm with Q'Orianka for promoting her own non-Hawai'ian activist groups at the opening of the movie. Yes, you're an activist and you're very involved with many beneficial organizations... but this is a Hawai'ian movie, don't promo other countrie's organizations for this.

My own ethnic issues aside, the movie as "a movie" is a snoozefest. Boring, and irritatingly so.