Let me say first of all that I am a huge Jennifer Garner fan, but I liked nearly everything else about this movie too.

The casting was great, I really enjoyed the music, and the story (a sort of female version of Big) was predictable but very enjoyable.  It is FUN, which is just what it set out to be.

The special edition DVD features were fairly extensive, giving insight into both the production and the actors' personal experiences as teenagers.  I enjoyed the blooper reel, but it left me wanting more, as it looked like they had lots of fun on the sets.  Some of the deleted scenes really would have helped continuity a bit, had they *not* been deleted.

Jennifer Garner (as Jenna Rink) gives a thoroghly enjoyable performance.  She is utterly believable as a 13yr old in a 30yr old's body, especially nearer the beginning of her "time warp."  Jenna is so sweet and [unintentionally] funny, and does a phenomenal (if not very realistic) job of growing up in a hurry.  "Magazine Publishing for Dummies," indeed.  Ms. Garner does a fantastic job of emoting -- every emotion comes through loud and clear, and she really takes you with her.  As I said before, I'm a huge fan, and therefore biased, but I just loved Jenna Rink.

Mark Ruffalo (as Matt Flamhaff) does a terrific job as an all-around [understandably conflicted] good guy.  Matt & Jenna were best friends when they were 13, and then they weren't.  But when she comes knockin' he's not bitter.  Cynical maybe, cautious maybe, still a little wounded, but still concerned that his former friend is upset.  Been there, done that, and I *reach*, brother.  I believed it.  "Arrivederci. [...] Au revoir."  I loved that bit where he knew what she meant but didn't want to loosen up and play the game at first.

As for the supporting cast, Judy Greer (Lucy), Marcia DeBonis (Jenna's assistant Arlene), and Andy Serkis (Richard) were all great.  From Lucy's *attitude* to Arlene's cowering to Richard's moonwalk, they all gave gave gave.  The kids were great too -- just the right mix of teenage awkwardness, angst, optimism, and herd behavior.

The whole production was nicely done, with subtle touches such as Young Jenna's blindfold sort of morphing into Adult Jenna's sleep mask when she wakes up 30.  Coolest music moment:  Young Chris Grandy arriving to Talking Heads' "Burning Down the House."  The ending was done so effectively that I just choked up on the spot.  I can't recall a better-done ending.  I could go on, but I've already written too much.

I really struggled not to give this 5/5 because it was so much fun, but *perfect* must really be reserved for *perfect*.  If I could only give it a 4.5...