Where do I begin?

I had just finished reading the book.  Marion Zimmer Bradley produced a masterpiece.  It is the tale of the Arthurian legends told from the women's perspective.  It also brings to the fore what most medieval stories won't broach - the transition from pagan beliefs to christianity.  I was very happy that this, along with the women's viewpoint was tackled.  Unfortunately, the movie failed to deliver.

In the book, there were a lot of subtle details that the author included.  They all had a reason.  For instance, Vivian and Morgaine, both of fairy ancestry, should be shorter than most people, not taller, as with the movie.  Also, the women of Avalon, when riding abroad, wear men's breeches.  There's a reason for this.  Morgause is not an evil sorceress.  Neither is Mordred an evil person.  The term Merlin is a title, not a name.  The priestesses of Avalon do not dress in gaily colored clothes.  The sacred well is actually sacred, and not to be treated like some weathered magical artifact. There are numerous other details, others not so subtle that have either been altered or cut out altogether.

I agree with a previous poster about how the true victims were the actors and actresses of this movie.  The scriptwriter probably had to acquiese to either the producer, director, or studio managmenet.  How else could any writer, novice or professional, think to leave out or change some of the most important parts of the story?  Nothing worked.  Not the love between Igraine and Uther.  Not the love between Lancelot and Guenivere.  Not Arthur's love for Guinevere and his companions.  Not Morgaine's love for Lancelot.  Not Viviane's commitment to the Goddess.  Not the Merlin's or Raven's devotion.  Not the sanctity of the Beltane rites.  Not the sacredness of Excalibur, of the Holy Regalia of Avalon.  Not even Mordred's inner conflicts.  He's not evil, only conflicted.  Imagine being the son of the High King and not being acknowledged for it because some priests consider it heresy.  Imagine the pain the High priestess of Avalon, the Lady of the Lake, had to endure in order to keep Avalon alive.  The "solo" passage through the mists should have been the culmination and greatest test for any priestess.  Lastly, who in their right mind would change the ending to any great book?  That is the utmost in presumptuousness.

I am very dissappointed with this movie.  Many points and details in the story have either been changed or altered.  I do not blame any of the actors or actresses.  They did their best for such a mediocre production.  Like the Lord of the Rings, Marion Zimmer Bradley's adaptation of the Arthurian legends should have been broken up into three separate movies, each about three hours long.  Maybe then can we all  truly enjoy the story of The Mists of Avalon.

This movie was not The Mists of Avalon.  It is a different story altogether.  How I wish I hadn't seen this under the pretext of MZB's book.  If you truly want to enjoy this story, please read the book instead.  This movie may have been made for TNT, but that doesn't excuse it's poor quality.  We should never lower our expectations for any story.  We should hold storytellers, print or film, to the highest standards.  And we should never butcher a good story for the sake of corporate entities.