The acting pleased me, and the shape of the story, and the look and feel of the film. Good work!

The first time I saw the film, I needed more help to notice the right things and ask the right questions.  For instance, I wanted more time to watch Frankie as he met with clues to his Mother's Lie.

[spoilers] Later it struck me that there is an interesting parallel between Lizzie's Stranger and another Stranger who also (1) came as if from nowhere, (2) won the heart of a needy girl,  (3) showed what a "real" Father is like, and then (4) left -- but he is coming back.  What he did was a gift. We don't know when he will return, so we wait.  He is even a hero on a white horse.  There may be a hundred literary parallels, but you will have guessed that I'm talking about Jesus (see the writings of John and Paul in the Bible).

Of course I don't mean that the parallel is perfect.  Lizzie's Stranger has his own needs; he is a pale reflection in a troubled pool.  And I don't mean to say that the writer and the director/cinematographer had the other Stranger in mind.  He was off camera; suddenly we realize he is there.

Only the surface of this movie is what some people call "realistic."  (That's rather like our lives, isn't it?)

The problem posed at the outset is Lizzie's Big Lie, and the movie never deals with it to the satisfaction of some people.  Maybe they are right.  But I see the silent mercy of God releasing Lizzie from the spider's web she has woven, the sticky web that protects and ensnares.  God, unrecognized, still cares for Lizzie and Frankie.

His mercy is also for a Stranger closed in on himself.  It is even for the man who was Frankie's physical father, when the last of his capacity for self-giving love has died.

A few things are done poorly, or are in poor taste.  And, sad to say, "Dear  Frankie" shows signs of spiritual emptiness.  Well, so do I.  Let's notice the symptoms, but let's enjoy the film for the good that is in it.

Even at the end, Lizzie has something still to learn:  no one has to deserve to be forgiven.

The Scottish accent was not too hard to handle, and there are subtitles.  Anyway, for some of us the accent is like music.  So is a good story well told.