In the film "Real Women Have Curves", Ana faces several stereotypes.  She is an adolescent Latina who is trying to break free of the restraints put on her by her mother, her economic class, and her race.
 Ana's mother, Carmen, wants Ana to be what is considered the stereotypical Latina woman.  This woman is gracious, considerate, knows her place in the family, and performs her duties without questioning them.  In a scene from the movie, Carmen is telling, Raul, Ana's father, that she would like to teach Ana how to cook and sew but Ana is not interested.  Carmen cannot understand why Ana would not want to learn about what she will supposedly need in the future when she has a family.
 Ana doesn't want to learn about domestic duties because she wants to continue her education in college.  It is important for Ana to go to college in order to break out of the Latina teen image.  She wants to move beyond her economic class and make something for herself outside of her family.
 Carmen is constantly arguing with Ana about Ana's weight.  Carmen, overweight herself, wants Ana to be beautiful, but more importantly to be married, and she thinks that unless Ana is skinny, no one will want her.  Ana, who knows that she needs to lose weight, goes against her mother because she wants to lose weight for herself and not for anyone else.  Ana is stuck between a few stereotypes when it comes to her weight.  The first being that she is a girl, and girls, especially in America are supposed to be thin and pretty.  The second being that according to her  culture, she is supposed to marry young, and ideally the bride is supposed to be thin.  Ana  feels that in order for her to lose weight, she must find her own reason, not her culture's or her mother's reasons.
 Ana and Jimmy's (her boyfriend relationship breaks stereotypical adolescent ideals of relationships.  Ana is not afraid of her body, and before her and Jimmy do anything, she acts him to turn on a light to see her as she really is.  Jimmy finds her attractive and doesn't care that she isn't the ideal skinny American girl.
 Ana is being surveyed by her family, Jimmy, her co-workers, her teacher, and the world.  According to John Bergers theory of "surveyor/surveyed", Ana is then the surveyed, but also a surveyor because she looks at the world around her.  She disagrees with the way Estela's (her sister) boss treats her, and doesn't want to be classified as just a Latina teenager, she wants to be seen as Ana, a person with thoughts and feelings.