Do you have a movie that for some reason, is just one of those movies you can watch again and again and never get tired of it? For those of you on both (or the same, whatever) sides who keep slobbering over the shower scene or a loosely draped towel, this review is not for you. I love a good murder mystery and Whiteout, to me, is simply a good murder mystery. I thought Kate Beckinsale did a wonderful job as burned out U.S. Marshall, Carrie Stetko. Obviously stationed in a South Pole U.S. camp, the story opens with her returning from another Marshall duty. She seems tired, run down and just wants a hot shower and some rest. This is not to be, however as she is immediately tasked to investigate a dead body spotted in her jurisdiction. I love movies shot in the beauty and splendor of either poles, anyway. That this turns out to be a pretty good who-done-it is simply an added bonus for me. So far, I haven't read a review here that does this movie justice or one that would make a reader want to see it, so, I'll do my best without spoilers, which isn't easy.

The main characters are Carrie, already listed, a truly great turn by Tom Skerritt as the station's doctor, John Fury, and also honorable mention to Gabriel Macht, now known as Harvey Specter on one of TV's best new shows, Suits, playing UN agent Robert Pryce, who helps Carrie solve the mystery of who, why, when, and where of the dead body and the who-done-it. Also, honorable mention number two goes to Columbus Short (Quarantine, Death At a Funeral) as Delfy, who flies and drives them wherever they need to go.

The movie, despite numerous jokes and put-downs here, has everything a great murder mystery must have to make it fun to watch. Lots of action, a wonderful investigation that leads Carrie and Pryce down some interesting avenues, including a very exciting outdoor chase scene in an arctic snow storm with powerful winds and blinding snow. The ending, which I will not give away so others might find and actually enjoy this little gem of a mystery, is not expected (at least not by me, and I'm pretty good at "gaming" murder mysteries).

So, I encourage you to spend an evening, pop some corn, and grab your beverage of choice, kick back and enjoy this sweet little thriller for what it is. A truly terrific story, with great actors, who turn in some great acting. As I said, I still watch this movie every once in a while, when I'm in the mood for a fun ride in a movie that I KNOW is not a waste of time!