Recently I bought this film on DVD because I enjoy it so much, even after many viewings over the years.  Event Horizon, for the uninitiated, first-time viewer, is a shock to the senses.  It does not play by the traditional rules of sci-fi horror flicks.  It plays tricks with the mind, leaving the viewer frightened, but more importantly, deeply disturbed by the images.  Very few films have been able to scare me so deeply other than The Shining, Suspiria, and Ringu.  Event Horizon takes the elements of psychological horror and brilliantly combines them with physical revulsion and gore.  The first time I saw this movie was in a half-empty theatre in Muncie, Indiana.  I was terrified so much I couldn't sleep.  
Sure, the acting is not perfect, and maybe this film could have been better if the writer had spent more time with dialogue, but all in all this film is superb for it's genre. 
One of the film's greatest assets is the ship, the Event Horizon.  I was amazed at the detail involved.  It was part Alien, part Cathedral Norte Dame, and part Heironomous Bosch's vision of hell.  
There's something deeply unsettling about a disembodied voice hissing in Latin, which is revisited by the crew in the film several times, but what Paul T. Anderson does that really goes out on a limb is actually "showing" what happened to the missing crew.  I was truly not expecting this when I saw it.
Larry Fishburne and Sam Neil are well placed in this film, and the rest of the cast are fine actors as well.  As I recall, two of the UK actors went on to star in "The Patriot" with Mel Gibson.  
My judgement of the criticism this film recieved was that the reviewers were just plain disturbed.  This movie uses flash imagery to push the right psychological buttons that leave the viewer unable to forget what they've seen.
I'm a film snob, and I love this movie!  If you want to be scared witless, then watch it alone in the dark. The score is creepy, but the special effects are amazing.  This is great stuff, and I highly recommend this film!