The 2000 comedy of Miss Congeniality, directed by Donald Petrie and produced and starring Sandra Bullock as Gracie Hart; Michael Caine as Victor Melling; Benjamin Bratt as Agent Eric Matthews; and Candice Bergen as Ms. Morningside, a Warner Brothers Photograph, Castle Rock Entertainment, is a smashingly funny movie.  Gracie Hart a/k/a Gracie Lou Freebush is an FBI agent who has no desire to be a debutante, let alone a candidate for the next Miss United States pageant.  However, the pageant is in jeopardy by threats made from a bomber and Gracie is the only available agent who is not too homely or on maternity leave to go under cover. The agency must convince Ms. Morningside, Director of the Pagenant, that the pageant needs protection as well as allowing Gracie to be Miss New Jersey candidate at the San Antonio, Texas, contest.  There is one requirement by the agency - Gracie must place in the top five.  After due reluctance, Ms. Morningside gives in to the agency's request.  She insists that the only individual that could help Gracie is Victor Melling.  The first meeting with Victor is he take one look at Gracie's tomboyish actions, lack of make-up and care, tangled hair and horrible manners, he refuses the job.  Gracie  convinces him that he must help her to at least place in the top five due to the necessity of protecting the pageant as well as catching the individual who may be hidden on the inside of the pageant. Victor accepts the great challenge.  Upon complete restoration overnight, Gracie's looks have completely changed from an ugly duckling to a swan.  During her entire training and exposure to the pageant, Gracie begins to take a look at herself on the outside as well as on the inside and does not know how to accept the change.  Eventually, she finds out that she is a woman. Agent Eric Matthews helps her along the way with the ups and downs of becoming a woman and finding out what a wonderful asset she is to the agency.  Every candidate wants to be a winner and they all want world peace.  And in the end, so does Gracie.  I rate this movie five stars because it has everything in it a comedy should have:  laughter, tears, sarcasm, slapstick, romance, and talent.  A soundtrack is available.  This film is 110 minutes long.