This movie makes Mel Gibsons acting career finally respectable.  Formerly he had just been a pretty boy in action movies, but finally shows there may be more to this Aussie than meets the eye.
Gibson takes the historical heroic tale of the Scottish Revolution against the British, led by William Wallace, mixes it with a little romance, and then recieves his Oscar.  The two notable awards were for direction, which was done creatively, especially in complex battle scenes that were too gory, and Best Picture.  
Briefly the movie is about a courageous young Scottsman who is forced into a fight against the English after they murdered his lover, whom he married in secret to avoid a new law giving the local Lord sexual rights to her.  As the movie progresses his fight becomes less about revenge and more about the principle of freedom: securing happiness for his imaginary family with his deceased wife.  To successfully fight the British he uses the unhappy lovesick Princess of England(stuck in a marriage with a gay man) who dreams of loving William Wallace.  The movie ends realistically, without diminishing any of the inspiration and hope that eventually drives the Scottish people to obtain their freedom.  
Highlights of the film:
Sophie Marceau - A french actress playing the princess is surprisingly good.  She is elegant and graceful in this movie almost reminding me of the great Audrey Hepburn, if only because of her long black hair and beautiful face.  
David O'Hara - Plays a seemingly crazy irishman.  His antics will make you laugh, but his character will make you ponder.
Negatives:
Battle Scenes are way too gory.  I miss the old days when violence was still only suggestive.  I don't need to see it.  In fact I would rather be able to tell it's fake.  I don't understand Hollywood's push to make dismembered burnt bodies look real.  Are we human?  
I'm a bit confused over the relation between the dead wife, Wallace and the princess.  The movie tries to tell you the whole fight is just for the dead wife.  It tries to convince us how much Mel Gibson loves his wife.  And yet he goes and sleeps with the princess just because she brings him some weapons.  This is why I think he was using her and probably just got a bit horny one night.