The Shining is one of the horror genre's most notable films.  Made in 1980 by the late, legendary Stanley Kubrick, the film stands out as not only one of his best but probably the best Stephen King adaptation as well.  Though not nearly as true to the book as the later TV-movie would be, it is undoubtedly darker, more macabre, and ultimately superior to that version.  Kubrick was a genius behind the camera, giving us long, beautiful shots, allowing us to take in both the beauty and the horror of the Overlook Hotel.  For those who have yet to see the movie (and honestly, who hasn't at this point?), do yourself a favor and buy it today!  Disappointment is impossible.

As for the transfer of the film, it is unbelievable.  While clearly not as visually stunning or breathtaking as modern day flicks, this HD DVD version of The Shining boasts a virtually flawless transfer and cleans up many of the blemishes that were present on previous VHS and DVD versions.  Black levels are deep, clean, and ungrainy and the majority of the film offers a surprisingly clean look.  Detail is not as strong as it could have been, but Kubrick intentionally shot this film softly. The images won't pop and shine like modern movies will, as this is an old film, but for the price of the disc you are without a doubt getting the highest quality transfer this film has ever seen.

Audio has been upgraded from a mono to a TrueHD soundtrack, but for the most part audio will be very front-heavy.  Most of the peripheral speakers are used only for music, to intensify the sound of it (and it is effective).

Special features are slim: the old making of documentary (with or without commentary), theatrical trailer, and a few small featurettes that delve deeper into the making of The Shining, as well Stanley Kubrick's "Visions."  All pretty standard fare, all in 480i/p standard definition.

Whether you're a long time fan of the film, or new to it, this is a must-own if you own an HD DVD player and HDTV!  I hope you enjoy it as much as I did.