I decided to watch this movie after learning that the director, Chen Kaige, made this movie to purposefully draw parallels between the first  Chinese emperor's bloody quest to gain power and unite China, and the  Communist Party's attempt to maintain its grip on China.
This movie  conveys an extremely malevolent worldview.  Innocent people are victimized  by evil people.  Those who attempt to stand in evil's way are crushed, and  evil has its way.  Every attempt to achieve values is frustrated.  Repeatedly, even resistance against evil takes the form of deliberate  suicide or self-sacrifice. Visually, the film is quite disturbing.  There  is a great deal of blood, death, and suffering, though the ratio of gore to  death is low.
I can understand why the director Chen Kaige projects this  malevolence in the movie.  He grew up during China's Cultural Revolution, a  time of moral and literal cannibalism in China.  Suggesting his view of the  current situation in China, the movie portrays a society dominated by  murder, betrayal, corruption, and wholesale indifference to human life.  Attractive promises are made and betrayed to justify destruction.  No  redeeming qualities are found in those in power.  Furthermore, the  negativity of this movie is a direct rebuke to the style of  Chinese-government made movies which show Chinese people as happy under  Communist rule.
The movie's primary political message is: China's unity  is not worth the suffering and murder accompanying it.  This directly  refers to the situation in Tibet, Xinxiang province, and Taiwan.  It's hard  to imagine a person who has seen this movie cheering for "Chinese national  unity" as the Communists require.
Philosophically, the primary weakness  of the movie is that it presents life as having only two alternatives: one  can live and gain power through betrayal and deceit, or one can attempt to  practice honesty and integrity, which is an honorable act of self-sacrifice  leading to failure and death.  
Despite its malevolent worldview, the  movie has its virtues.  The film is visually arresting, in a way most  American movies gave up on 50 years ago. The film is intense, maintaining a  firm grip on one's attention, and creating a real emotional impact.  I  cautiously recommend this movie to people not particularly sensitive to  pictures of death, and who have an interest in China.