"He was handsomer then anybody I've ever met, he looked just like James Dean" narrates the naieve voice over of the gently nostalgic Holly (Sissy Spacek) towards the beginning of Badlands. A serliar killer  movie so spare and lacking in sensationalism that its bound to dissapoint  the less thoughtful among its viewers.
  Kit (Matin Sheen) is a real,  confident and familiar looking person. He is not a sociopathic religious  zealot or a man on a mission, his murders are mostly a matter of  convenience, murders that he wouldn't have commited had he not been  cornered. He doesn't like killing, but doesn't particualry seem regretful  of them either. In short, HE WASN'T EMOTIONALLY INVOLVED.
  "He  never met a 15 year old who behved like a grown up up and weren't  gigly" narrates Holly. She too is a loner, living with a morose and  firm father. She is smitten by Kit straight away because he seems to be the  only one who would accept her. When Kit kills her father early on in the  film, there is no screaming, agitation or hysteria you would find in a  similar scene in other films. The most chilling thing about this film is  the matter of fact manner in which the murders take place. Malick then  contrasts this with the bare, spare and beautiful great out doors of South  Dakota and Montana. In his best film, the masterpiece The Thin Red Line he  suggested that the cruelty of man was natural, that it was only an  extention of what goes on in the animal world. Here the idealogy is even  more disturbing, which is cruelty and murder as a matter of convenience.  Therefore there are now flashy death scenes or stylistic violence, there  isn't even a love scene between Kit and Holly. We do not go along for the  ride like for example Bonnie and Clyde, instead we examine the events from  above. When Kit threatens a couple with a gun, Holly just strolls after  him, and tries to socialise with the girl, like Kit she isn't emotionally  connected with the murders, her narration suggests nostalgia, as if she was  watching these events in a film herself.
  The only time Kit loses his  temper is when Holly refuses to go with him on a car chase from the police,  "He wanted a girl to cry over his dead body, he was wondering if he  could read about himself in the papers the day after his death." The  only thing that would anger him is that he may "GO DOWN IN THE SAME  PLAYED OUT SCENES" like Bruce Springsteen says in his song  Badlands.
  Terrance Malick has made three film, all masterpieces. The  Thin Red Line remains his best (or anybody's best). Badlands however  remains a unique, thoughtful and beautiful film. And for that it should be  considered a classic.