OK. We got Zombies. We got a shopping mall. We got Tom Savini and a couple others from the original Dawn, check out the Televangelist. But this is by no means a remake.

I went into watching this movie very hesitant. I read the reviews and I heard the bad reviews from friends who saw it in the theaters. Well, at least in my opinion, they were wrong.

This movie is really good. So they chew the dialogue a bit.

This DVD is an absolute must-have. And be sure to go for the unrated director's cut. The extras are fantastic. Seeing how the zombies come to life and back to death is gripping. The newscast is so realistic, it gives one flashbacks to Welles' War of the Worlds broadcast of oh so many years ago.

And for the die-hard Dawn fans, there are oh so many fun tips of the hat to the original. News broadcasts that are word for word lifts from the first Dawn. And check out the name over the full length mirror. And hmmmmm just who WAS that delivering the Tag Line?

And it truly is difficult for me to say this...but in some ways this one is BETTER than the original. The original, one of my favorite movies of all times, dragged during the middle of the film. Not a lot of action, a lot of talking. Not with the "new" Dawn. From the first 10 minutes, which we all saw on USA Networks when they ran it to the very last seconds of the credits the movie kept you in a constant state of terror and motion. The various sub-stories inside the mall keeps you constantly guessing what will happen next.

My only real complaints have to do with the movie ending and some of the music. Without giving away anything, why put the dramatic ending of the movie sandwich in with some gawd-awful annoying music. Speaking of music, that's my other major complaint. The Rap music, while hip, is way beyond aggravating. As you are watching massive action, you have to try and tune out how many time some idiot can throw the "F" word into his lyrics. Yeah, that's splitting hairs..or should that be heads..but I HATE rap music.

So bottom line, it's a good film. Much better than when they remade Night of the Living Dead a few years back. This one stands as it's own film, and one that really should be seen.