I'd never heard of this movie until 10 days ago.  I'd worn a red CCCP tee to work and one of the guys asked me, "What's the deal with the shirt?"  We'd started talking and I'd brought up the subject of the Cuban Missile Crisis.  My friend kept mentioning "13 Days".  I'd asked him what the movie was about and he told me "The Cuban Missile Crisis"

At he time of the event I was eight years old and I remember it as if it were yesterday.  People were, to say the very least, extremely frightened.  I remember a Nike missile being set up at the corner of Main and Center Streets in my little town.

I've just finished reading a book called "One Minute To Midnight"  by Michael Dobbs (2008) which I'd found absolutely fascinating.  Research materials for the book included the latest declassified materials concerning the Cuban Missile Crisis.  Friend who served in the military at the time always hold their thumb and index finger about one-eighth of an inch apart while saying, "We were THIS close to global nuclear war."
After reading "One Minute To Midnight" I now say to them, while hold up my hand with my thumb and index finger touching, "No.  We were THIS close to the extinction of life as we know it on planet Earth."

I found 13 Days an absolutely absorbing movie with great acting.  Overall I find the movie to be historically accurate given research materials available at the time the movie was made. Reading "One Minute To Midnight" absolutely enhanced the viewing of the movie for me and I found that newly revealed details in the book did in no way diminish the events depicted in the movie.

Much has been said about Kevin Costner's character but I found that the character served as a vehicle to link much of the events depicted and to provide perspective.  I would not only highly recommend this movie but the book "One Minute To Midnight" as well.

The only thing that I find would have mad the movie better would have been the inclusion of Krushchev and Castro, which would have provided an all-inclusive presentation of events that led the world to the brink of nuclear war.

As it stands the movie is a superb presentation of events that transpired on the American side when the Doomsday Clock was poised to strike midnight.<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00005J760">Thirteen Days (Infinifilm Edition)</a>