well, that's what happened when I watched the movie and listened to the commentaries.

Anwyay, it was a great movie, well done, and very interesting. An excellent Bio-drama. I've always been a monkee fan since I was little (during the "revival" in the 80's). I thought I was going to stop breathing when I heard they were putting this out in the summer of 00. LOL. .

Here's my take on the actors potrayal of the mOnkees

Jeff Geddis as Mike Nesmith: Acting: Great. Had the personality, did a good job. People are probably right though when they say he should have had a heavier texas accent.  Looks- #1 dead ringer. The only difference was his frame. Nesmith seems to me to be much finer-boned and "scrawnier" than Geddis. But of the four boys, he looked most like his Monkee. Overall a great job in all aspects of potraying Nez.

L.B. Fisher as Peter Tork: I was pleased. Great acting, great potrayal of the REAL Tork (not the one we saw on the show, which was really nothing like his real personality). Looks: Definitely #2 closest look-alike in the show.  Great performance. Too bad they couldn't have somehow given him killer dimples. Sigh.. oh well... guess makeup can only do SO much, right?

Aron Lohr as Mickey Dolenz: My favorite potrayal in the movie. Yes, he doesn't look that much like Dolenz, but how easy would it be to find a ringer for Mickey? I mean, come on, Dolenz had one of the most unique faces I've ever seen! You can't really expect them to be able to find a dead ringer. Alot of people complained about the inaccuracy of the hair (season 1 vs Season 2) They say DOlenz should have not been potrayed the whole time in wild curls. I for one am not gong to blame the producers of DDB. I mean, when i was little I thought of Mickey as the "not so good looking" monkee. I now know I was mostly thinking of season 1. His earlier hair style was NOT flattering at ALL. I for one am not going to blame them for not reproducing it. Dolenz's natural wild curls (potrayed in the movie very realistically) were MUCh more suited to that unique face. Anyway, have to say he's #3 in he look-alike ranking. But his acting and potrayal of the Zany monkee is so perfect that you forget his looks and really believe your watching Mickey. Just listen to Dolenz's commentary and you'll see that Lohr got the personality spot on.  Sorry Peter, if Mickey had've looked like Lohr, he would have DEFINITELY been my favorite Monkee heartthrob. LOL

Stanchev as Davy Jones. sigh.. That choice is the one thing I wish I could change about this movie. Surely there is SOME cutie short 17 year old (the age Jones actually LOOKED when he was  a Monkee) in England that can act as well as Stanchev, and look a whole lot more like Jones. Stanchev did nothing for me. He looked over 30, and as I said, Jones as a monkee could've passed for 17.  He wasn't cute at all. You'd think Davy's breathtaking looks (the thing he was so famous for) would be a HIGH priority in casting, but they let us down here. I give him Kudos for replicating Davy's dancing, and that's about it. I guess I got ENOUGH of an impression of shortness from him. too.

So, I reccomend this movie to any Monkee lover or biopic fan.  IT's really well scripted, and except for the casting of Jones, it's a great movie anyway.  The commentaries are Great. I was always in love with Peter, (to this day I have a thing for killer dimples and a boyish innocent grin) but after listening to all the commentaries and getting an idea of their real personalities, I think I would have enjoyed being around Dolenz alot more. I LOVED his wacky comments, and the way he kept saying "What a great looking kid! Wow, where did they find this kid" in reference to Lohr. LOL one of the other real monkees even said "Mickey must be happy with his casting."  Yes, Lohr was kinda hot as the high-energy monkee. Yes, cuter than the Real M.D. But if Dolenz had always had his hair natural, he'd have been alot cuter too, so I'll give him some credit.