I can't believe the beating this movie has taken ~ truly it is not half as bad as many reviewers say.  I've been a fan of Alexander for years, and I think Stone did a pretty good job.  Alexander isn't the easiest man to put on film, as his accomplishments (as well as his real live supporting cast) far surpass a 3 hour time frame.  Much of Alexander has been left out simply because Stone didn't have the time.  Those who have studied this young King must certainly admit this.

Considering Stone had 3 hours and a finicky general audience to appeal to, I think the movie was right on for the most part.  You get a feel for what motivated Alexander, why his men loved him so much and how easily this drive pushed him over the edge.  You know the saying "Larger than life"?  No one epitomizes this phrase better than Alexander, and I feel Stone conveyed this well.

Those who study Alexander and are disappointed with this condensed, watered down version of his life please remember...Stone was trying to appeal to a general audience.  You know, the ones who put movies like "Kill Bill" or "Meet the Fockers" in the top ten.  That's a tall order.

Those who are hung up on the gay undertones or Jolie's accent, get over it.  Bisexuality was the norm in Alexander's day (and long after).  Frankly, I feel the movie didn't go far enough with Hephaistion, but I understand Stone's reluctance here.  The fact that he HAD to hold back is pathetic in this day and age, but hey...

Jolie was creepy, but that works when one thinks of Olympias.  Who knows where the accent comes from, and really...who cares.  The point of Olympias' personality and her affect on Alexander comes across, and that's what matters.

Now, I strongly disliked the liberties Stone took with Roxane, one of Alexander's wives.  I found it a tad ridiculous and cringed a few times during their scenes together.  I think that time could have been better spent with Hephaistion, Bagoas (briefly shown but not mentioned in the movie), Parmenio, Darius' mother...hell...*anyone* other than Roxane.  But this is my only serious beef.

The battle of Gaugamela was very exciting, and for someone like me who has only read about it or seen drawings of it (in a Monday Night Football fashion) on the History Channel, it was wonderful to finally see it on the big screen, Stone-style.  Vangelis did an equally wonderful job in providing an awesome soundtrack, especially for this scene.  Oh boy...and the battle with King Porus...yikes!  When I first read about elephants in battle, I thought "What?  How does THAT work?"  I just couldn't picture it in my mind.  Thanks to this movie, I now have a pretty damn good idea how terrifying it must have been to face an army of such animals.

It's a shame the general public didn't embrace this movie out of the gate, as this man is no work of Hollywood fiction.  He was the real deal, folks.  And I'm thrilled Stone attempted to bring him to the big screen.  Perhaps when the movie goes to DVD, more people will give it a chance and maybe come away with a bit of appreciation for Alexander and his achievements.