Leslie Sansone's "Five Really Big Miles" is new in 2011. If you are a veteran walker, you will be happy to discover new music, new combination moves, and an all-new cast.

The backdrop of this workout is a white-painted studio. There is abstract art done in whites and blues, reminding you strongly of water. To intensify the "thirst" effect, there is a shelf full of bottled water. It reminded me to drink while I was working out. While this takes place in a studio, the windows and doors have been papered white over the glass, so you do get distracted by what's going on outside, as we did in past DVDs. There are no posters or slogans or expressions hanging on the wall. It is simple, white, and modern.

There are five, mile-long segments. In Mile One, you walk low-impact at an easy, light pace. An example of the music from this mile is "Say A Little Prayer For You." There are many walkers of many shapes and sizes in this mile. Leslie introduces new moves, like the double side step and four beat combinations of old moves. She even brings back the Cha-Cha from the 1980's, calling it "Fast Feet" by performing it on her toes, like a "little run."

Miles Two and Four are strength training miles, using the Stretchie Band (included with the DVD). In Mile Two, you do all upper body work with the Band. In Mile Four, you use the Band to do squats and lunges. The strength training work is done in intervals. In Mile Four, you do two high-impact intervals of "Boosted Walking" (Jogging) and a new move, the high-impact grapevine. You will break a sweat, and you will feel this the next day. While doing the walking-jogging intervals, you tie the Stretchie around your waist.

Mile Three is the fastest mile in terms of pace. The new move you will find in this mile is "shifts." Shifts are really a boxer's bounce from toe to toe, side to side. You add punches to the front, and later overhead to intensify the move. This mile ends with a short "boosted" interval, 60 seconds of jogging.

Mile Five is the "Facebook" mile. She has one walker sitting off the the side with a laptop, reading Facebook posts, and Leslie even announces one of the posts. This is largely a cool-down mile as the pace and intensity slows. There is a Cool Down segment included, but this segment is not very useful physically. There is no stretching, and it is simply an aerobic cool down. If you are fit, you probably cooled down in Mile Five. During the Cool Down segment, Leslie introduces some of the walkers, talks about wedding anniversaries of two couples walking with her, and the importance of family (her brother and sister in law are part of the group).

This is a long, fun workout for days you want to do more than just aerobic activity. If you are an outdoor walker or runner, this will add variety as well as some light strength work. The only major muscle group missing from the strength work was Abs (or core). I wished there were some crunches or sit-ups thrown into the mix somewhere just to round it out better. I would have also appreciated a good stretch at the end.