Here we have an extraordinary film dealing with profound themes of innocence and guilt, law and morality; set against the "grip and slog" (D.H. Lawrence) of everyday life.  Much of life is perfunctory, humdrum and carnal. To speak of the brief nudity (as have some reviewers) as a sensationalist distraction from the profound themes within which it is set, is to deny the human condition. More to the point is the question as to what degree does the "humdrum" itself become immoral.  We know that "ignorance of the law" is never a defense, but what about the banal acts of repetition that are moved from one context to another; becoming evil only in a later context?

Only one certainty emerges from this movie, Kate Winslet is the greatest living film actor.  Those who thought her nudity a distraction have been seeing too many arty David Niven movies from the forties. This is a contemporary movie with contemporary esthetic.  Hanna Schmitz (Winslet's character) was a lonely, ignorant, amoral woman; illiterate, bereft of any history (nothing whatever is mentioned about her past), she is basically just a cipher.  David Kross as her teen-age lover deserves honorable mention.  His character as an adult was played by the redoubtable Ralph Fiennes.

Hanna lost her job because she was too reliable.  Her superiors were so impressed with her dependability she was promoted from transit ticket-taking to a job requiring reading and writing.  Unable to perform these simple tasks she was forced to find work of which she was capable, as a guard in the Jewish concentration camps. She was reliable as a guard but this once again proved her undoing when the concentration camps became death camps. Her "job" was to keep the prisoners locked in; and she steadfastly performed her duty even as the inmates were incinerated by an accidental fire.  Later, at the War Crimes trial she could not exculpate herself without admitting that she was illiterate.

Lena Olin, in double cameo roles as mother at the trial and then daughter near the end of the movie is brilliant.  As the grim, stoic Jewish woman at the end of the movie she coldly states "nothing came out of the camps but death."  She has no time for the sentimentality of Hanna's one time lover (Ralph Fiennes, portraying what he does best, self-pity).  The movie reminds us again what we have learned from the Jews; the death of the body is death.  No sentiment, no fantasy of salvation or forgiveness can change that fact; there is nothing more that we nor anyone else can do.  There is no redemption for Hanna or her sentimental lover.

This movie is a profound tragedy. Yet, given the unforgiveable horrors of the Death Camps, there can be no sense of catharsis.