A shockingly stupid script can not be overcome by crane and helicopter shots, by good actors, by nice locations and local color.  If your story is full of unbelievable behavior, then even lovers of gratuitous torture may find the going tough.  There is simply no way the "innocent" couple in this story would behave they way they do; it's all a pretext for the writer/director to get them in peril and tortured and hunt.

But there are people who really like torture stories, regardless of logic:  it's their style of pornography.  That's okay, porn serves useful purposes.

But what users of Amazon have to be aware of is this:  Eden Lake is highly rated.  This worthless movie is more highly rated than a significant number of worthwhile horror movies.  Now I don't believe the ratings process can be totally disregarded because of this movie's rating but there is a message here.  People who are not fans of torture porn must be very careful in evaluating the ratings of various horror movies.  Horror is a tough genre:  because stars are not needed to sell it, there are fewer barriers to entry and bad scripts like this can be shot.

But horror lovers are less discriminating than others.  I simply don't believe a stupid rom-com would ever be as highly rated as a bad horror film.  This is because rom-com fans, however delusional or unsophisticated in terms of story, won't seize on some extra-story feature such as torture scenes to justify their ranking.

If you're not a fan of violence and torture for their own sake, I would not trust the rankings of horror films on this site.  Nor would I trust any reviewer who liked this movie.  Sometimes a litmus test is presented in criticism and there's definitely one here.  Anyone who likes this movie -- without admitting the torture scenes are what he or she is really into -- cannot be trusted in terms of an opinion on horror.  Their love of pornography is too strong.  No anti-horror basis here; I would apply the same rule to someone else who liked a dumb movie just for its sex scenes.