Being a huge fan of criminal investigation movies I jumped at the chance to see this. From the previews I already knew Sandra Bullocks storyline would not be as interesting as the two boys in the movie.
In the first 5 minutes of the movie you already know whodunit. The movie is a mystery in the sense as "how did they do it" and "will they get away with it?" Sanda Bullock portrays Cassie Mayweather, a cop with a dark secret(zzzz) who sets out to find whodunit.
The movie seems to have two in one. You have Sandra Bullocks movie and you have Justin and Richards movie.
The reason I say 'Sandra Bullock's' movie is because the character she portrays is not a far stretch from others she has played. Therefore, when her storyline appears you can't see her as Cassie Mayweather-You only see her as Sandra Bullock. Its almost as if Sandra Bullock wants to try a dark role but can't go the whole distance.
Justin and Richard are the two boys whom may or may not get away from Sandra's grasp. Their movie is far more interesting. It's intense, dark, disturbing, and a unique way of portraying a relationship between two friends holding their own secret. Every time their storyline appears you open your eyes, you listen, you tell people next to you to shut the hell up! You want to know more about them, you want to see how they will react, and though they are the villains you like them! Though movies have a tendency to shy away from teen violence this one heads it straight on. It looks at the realistic view of it and you are left wondering 'why do teens today do this [stuff]?'
The story line of the two boys is soooooo intriguing you damn Sandra Bullock for showing up and making us watch her character try to 'find herself.' She is the typical woman cop character. She acts manly, is made fun of by the intimidated boy cops, does not have great romantic relationships, and holds a dark secret that has traumatized and taken over her life. Her character is so cardboard, you find it hard to even care about her 'secret.' But we are subjected to watching her while we wait for more of the boys.
This movie is good-maybe even great. However, it would have been amazing if it would have concentrated soley on the boys storyline and used the cops as a minor storyline. I guess Sandra Bullock just couldn't be the supporting actress in this movie. Some will love this movie, some will hate it, some will see it once and forget all about it later. My advice is, don't pay attention to mine or others reviews and just go with what you feel. If you want to go see it-by all means, go! Enjoy! Because although it had its flaws I do not feel my money was wasted.