This excellent series should be required viewing for anyone with the slightest concern with what's going on in our country today and what's going to become of us in the future.

Step by step, Adolf Hitler and the Nazi party's rise to power is meticulously documented, along with how and why one of the most liberal and tolerant of all the European nations in history voted him in as Chancellor of Germany.

The descriptions of Hitler's operating methods and his relationships with his subordinates are especially chilling. He surrounded himself with sycophants whose advancement was based on their personal loyalty to him and nothing else. Then he encouraged them to compete with one another to win his favor.

The series clearly demonstrates Hitler's personal laziness, his disdain for detail work and the day to day administrative governmental grind, which he left entirely to his subordinates.

When it came to new policy, he would suddenly pluck an idea out of the air and throw it at one of his underlings, and he often assigned the same project to two of them at once.

The only actual work he ever did was on his public speeches and appearances, and, as a flamboyant demagogue/showman, he was definitely  in a class by himself.

Not only did he put on entertaining, colorful spectactles at his enormous rallies, he would deliberately aim his inflammatory rhetoric at his audience's lowest common denominator; which was their rage against the Treaty of Versailles after Germany's WWI defeat and its resulting economic woes. Then, when he had his audience thoroughly worked up, he would offer them what they most wanted to hear: a magic bullet.

Just this past week, I watched on TV as a prominent political candidate attempted to whip up their audience with one hatemongering statement after another at the top of their lungs. Afterwards, while I watched them joyously reaching for one outstretched hand after another in the adoring crowd, I suddenly realized that the only thing lacking to make the whole  event complete was a Swastika.

While this is not an easy series to watch, I still thoroughly recommend it to anyone with a concern about some of the things we're seeing happen today, if only so that we won't be tempted make the same political mistakes.