At age 23, Orson Welles reached for the moon by calling attention to himself with his radical, fascist inspired NYC staging of Julius  Caesar.  This film shows the protean genius making the transition from radio to the daunting discipline of a stage production.  It's fun to accompany him into the radio studio where he goes on air, coast to coast, absolutely cold and without having even glanced at the script AND walks away with the show.  He brings the same cocky confidence in "winging it" to his giant gamble with the radical stage production of Julius Caesar and it all succeeds powerfully, flambouyantly and with plenty of shock value --- all to become trademarks of his meteoric career.  Inside the theater (empty for rehearsals) we watch the gamble unfold.

Zac Efron (17 in the film) lands a bit part in the play almost by accident and is stunned to find himself in the daily company of Welles, Joseph Cotton and the entire cast of the soon-to-be-famous Mercury Theatre.  Although Welles and the chaotic rehearsals are the jawdropping thread of the movie, it's not all "theater" and it's a charming, accomplished Zac Efron who preserves the film's smooth continuity as he moves between various worlds, cutting high school classes, having his first taste of seduction and then erring by challenging Welles once too often and paying the price.  It's all great fun and it's an added treat to see the dead ringers they found to play Welles and Joseph Cotton on screen.  The entire cast enters into the zesty spirit of the rehearsals, with their vanities, clashes with Welles and their forebodings of disaster regarding opening night.  It hits a balance and a "buzz" that's most pleasant and agreeable.

Historical hawkeyes will notice that no one was dressed shabbily with the clothes patches that were commonplace during the Great Depression, but this was done with a sure feel to preserve the feel good factor and in this latter the film succeeds abundantly.  It was a treat to watch it three times, savouring the blaze of Welles's genius and the open ended optimism of being young --- even during the grim times of the Great Depression. The film is not a major cinematic milestone, but it's beautifully  crafted, bouyant, original and a sure recipe  FOR FUN & DELIGHT!