The movie started out promising enough, but completely unraveled after that.  Michael Douglas's character is completely flat.  The whole plot is predictable, stealing from just about every thriller made in the past 5 years, melding them together into an unworkable film.  The relationship between Douglas and his daughter really tries hard to pull on your heartsrtings, you just know she going to be kidnapped (in an outlandish and unrealistic way).  Douglas's wife, who through most of the movie is bedridden with a severly broken leg, still puts a tremondous beating on one of the kidnappers.  Of course, after knocking him unconscious, she leaves him on the floor assuming the problem is taken care of (guess what happens next).  This was so outlandish, I found myself laughing out loud.  In a subplot that actually detracts from the film instead of complementing it, there is a female cop who is so unlikeable you almost hope something bad happens to her.  It's a wonder anyone helped her at all with such a menacing attitude.  I rarely do this, but I had to fast forward through some of it where the plot justs bogs down to a halt, and didn't miss anything.
I wish the group of kidnappers could have been more clever and evil, instead they came across as a group of baffoons.  By the way, not to be outdone by his wife, Douglas also puts a pretty good licking in hand to hand combat on a kidnapper at least twice his size (the kidnapper had a shovel too, Douglas just had his two hands).
The one shining star in this movie, is the 'psychotic' girl (I don't recall the name of the actress).  She gives a good performance, but as in all poor plots, she is won over by Douglas way too easy.  So much so, that she goes from a 'I'll never tell' attitude to completely submissive and agreeable in a span of one scene.  Also in her flashbacks, her face as a little girl are laden with freckles, I was wondering what happened to them all when she got older. And why did the hair and eye color change?  Usually, they try to have the younger person at least try to resemble the older person as they age in movies.  My guess is that this girl was probably one of the producers daughters.
Oliver Platt's character is severely underdeveloped, and his motives for his actions just seem to come out of left field at times.  For instance, Douglas doesn't want Platt to know his daughter has been kidnapped.  Platt is watching Douglas through a one-way mirror as he interviews a disturbed girl who holds the secret to his daughter's freedom.  Platt walks out (for no apparant reason) of the observation room right when Douglas talks about his kidnapped girl, and back in again right after he stops and changes the subject.  This doesn't happen once but twice!  What timing!  Can Douglas see him going in and out of the room through the one way mirror?  Who knows?  And who cares.  The movie is full of little things like this that just add up to a big disappointment at the end.