When I saw "The 40-Year-Old Virgin" a couple nights ago, let's just say my expectations weren't all that high.  I figured it'd just be another idiotic proto-American sex "comedy".  Boy was I wrong.  It is a sex comedy in the sense that there is a group of some juvenille, immature men, but the key is that it's done with a nod and a wink.  The people who made this movie, Judd Apatow (who also did "Freaks & Geeks" and "Undeclared"), Seth Rogen (also of "Freaks & Geeks" fame"), and Steve Carell (just a really funny guy who was great on "The Daily Show") were well aware that the whole thing was a farce.

The cast is also amazingly good, particularly in the individual dynamics they have.  Particularly funny is the dynamic they all have with Jane Lynch's character, the store manager, (a member of the Chris Guest ensemble), and in particular, Seth Rogen, who also co-produced, is a stand-out.  The interaction between Steve Carell and Jane Lynch is absolutely priceless ("Do you know what a ****buddy is?").  There could never be the kind of store that is shown in the movie in real life, but that's what's so great about it.  It's just so insanely over the top, one (at least this one) can't help but laugh.  The fact that a good deal of the film was adlibbed merely added to the impressiveness of this film.

In fact, one of the best scenes in the movie, which is expounded upon on the DVD, is the one between Paul Rudd and Seth Rogen where they're playing video games and having the most infantile argument about how they know the other is gay.  If you watch the extended version of this, the final two responses to this line of reasoning show, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that all those involved in with this film are very much in the know about how absurd it is.  They also don't overdo the bodily functions humor perfected and, I would argue, overused by the Farrelly brothers, only having one real scene involving a regurgitated daqiri and fish sandwich.

I think the comparison to "The Jerk" that another reviewer made is quite apt.  It is very much a smart-stupid comedy.  Another prime example of this type of film, although a little more grounded in pop culture, is Stella's "Wet Hot American Summer".  I am a self-professed film snob.  My favorite film is either "The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeosie" or "Wild Strawberries", but I also enjoy films that are intelligent in their stupidity, which despite sounding like an oxymoron, is not.  See "The Jerk" for proof of this.  "The 40-Year-Old Virgin" is another great example of a comedy in this vein.  I highly recommend a watch to anyone who enjoys absurdist, over the top humor.