After 70 years, "A Night At The Opera" is still considered one of the finest comedy films ever made, and is often called the funniest film the Marx Brothers ever made; there's also a handful of fans who consider "A Day At The Races" to be the funnier of the two. Die-hard fans already have them both in the five-disc box set; if you've only got room on your shelf for one Marx Brothers film, this review should help you decide between the two.

Both films were supervised by Hollywood genius Irving Thalberg, who realized that the Marx Brothers' raucous style of humor was not enough to sell tickets; it was his insistence on adding glamour and romance that made the films successful. Both films feature Allan Jones as the handsome singer who needs a break so he can marry his sweetheart. Both films feature Groucho and Chico as fast-talking con artists; Groucho swindles Margaret Dumont while Chico swindles Groucho. Both films feature Harpo as a mischevious mute who is sadistically whipped by the villain. Both films end in surrealist chaos, devilishly orchestrated by the brothers Marx. Of course, all is forgiven before the closing credits roll.

In "Night", Margaret Dumont can barely tolerate Groucho's incompetence; in "Day", she blindly ignores it because she's in love with him, allowing him to get away with a lot more comic mischief. In "Night", Allan Jones and Kitty Carlisle are both given ample time to sing, bringing the action to a halt; in "Day", Kitty is replaced by the non-singing Maureen O'Sullivan, a better actress who never wastes screen time with a sappy duet. In "Day", the Marxes get revenge on crooks who want to fix a horserace and build a casino, in "Night", they get revenge on a mean opera singer who wants to steal Allan's girl, making him less of a villain and more of a pest. The songs in "Night" are far more tolerable than the music in "Day", but let's face it - the only songs you need in a Marx Brothers movie are the ones played on piano and harp.

Extras on the "Night" disc include a witty essay on curing insomnia by humorist Robert Benchley, along with a Leonard Maltin commentary track. His remarks lack the spontaneity and informality of the commentary track for "Day", suggesting that it was scripted by Maltin or his research staff. At one point, he suggests that sharp-eyed viewers may be able to spot the father of the Marx Brothers twice in one scene: first on a pier and again on a ship. My research indicates that he could not have appeared in this 1935 film, as he had passed away two years earlier. Maltin may have confused this scene with a similiar one in "Monkey Business". There's also a rare talkie for star-gazers featuring cameos by dozens of MGM contract players, including one Julius Marx (aka Groucho sans moustache) but most of the dialogue is muffled or inaudible.

Although both films are highly enjoyable with a higher-than-average amount of laugh-out-loud moments, I'm giving "Day" a slight edge over "Night" on the basis of its comedy-to-music ratio. In addition, the dramatic final horserace in "Day" makes for a much more satisfying conclusion than the lovers' duet in "Night". Head for the races before you see the opera.