As a fan of the books, I was not expecting very much.  You know how it is.  Someone in Hollywood reads maybe a chapter and half and then goes to town and puts a ton of their own ideas in, changes names and does a real hack job on the book we all know and loved.  This DID NOT happen here at all.  The movie exceeded my expectations in every possible way.

The basic plot is that Stephanie Plum of Trenton New Jersey has recently (okay---six months ago) lost her job, has a bunch of bills and rent to pay and needs some fast cash.  She blackmails her cousin Vinnie into giving her a job at his bail bonds business as a recovery agent (okay---bounty hunter).  He'd prefer to just assign her the easier stuff (naked flasher ftas) but she wants to go after the big money, trenton cop, Joe Morelli, with whom Stephanie has shared some intimate moments (okay---one intimate moment)in the past.

I'm not going to spoil too much with this review, I'm just going to address the things that I would have wanted to know before going to see this film.

First, I was not very happy when Katherine Heigl was cast as Stephanie.  I like her, but I don't think she is much of an actress.  She was a great Izzie Stevens, but since then she has mostly played Izzie Stevens.  But, surprisingly, she was goooood in this!  She played Stephanie perfectly, and I will probably have more respect for her as an actress in the future.  Stephanie herself grows up a little through the film.  She becomes more assertive and she tries so hard and she remains cheerful no matter what sort of bad things happen to her.  I don't think we could have recieved a better cinematic treatment of our favorite bounty hunter.

The other characters are great as well.  I felt Grandma Mazur was a little too lady-like, I wish she'd been in her track suit, and had seemed a little more Grandma Mazurish, but I hope there will be a sequel or six and we will get to see her develop more.  Morelli and Ranger are exactly what I hoped for.  Vinnie and Connie and Lula were pretty good as well.  You'll see Connie and recognize her instantly---she's entirely faithful to Janet's depiction.  And yes, the man who plays Vinnie does sort of look like a weasel.

The only tiny gripe I have was that Ramierz seemed a little too sane in the movie.  I understand that having that subplot in there would have probably extended the movie by at least twenty minutes, but I was so looking forward to him whispering about himself in 3rd person...and he seemed smarter in the movie, being more involved in the Jimmy Alpha operation.  And of course, I wanted more Lula, but the writers were very faithful to the book and Lula was not in the first book very much.  You can't have your cake and eat it too, I guess.

The last thing I have to say is that the people who wrote the script obviously spent a lot of time reading the books and there were plently of details in there that a fan will recognize and appreciate.  As Stephanie scrolls through her phone, we see the number for Pino's Pizza, Rex is in her kitchen always running on his wheel, Lula says she'll talk more if Stephanie brings her a snack, Lula tells Jackie it's hot and she's hungry (always), Ranger and Morelli refer to Stephanie as "Babe" and "Cupcake," respectively, and there are a lot of other little details that I can't remember just now, but which helped the movie to have the feel of the books.  I love it so much when a movie is adapted this well.  I cannot wait to see this again, and I really hope there are is a sequel which remains as true to the series as this one.  I cannot say enough good things about this movie!  Go and see it soon, it will not dissapoint you.