Never Say Never Again is an unofficial, non-EON Bond film that was released in 1983, directed by Irvin Kershner. The film stars Sean Connery, Kim Basinger, Edward Fox, Max Von Sydow, Alec McCowan, Bernie Casey, and Klaus Maria Brandauer. The musical score is composed by Michel LeGrand, and the title tune is sung by Lani Hall.

A little history lesson for the unfamiliar. In the late 50s, Ian Fleming had written several James Bond novels, and was desperately trying to make a film out of one of them. These attempts never quite worked and were met with skepticism, so Fleming teamed up with Kevin McClory, a brilliant writer. The two created a screenplay, but Fleming had it turned into the next Bond Novel (Thunderball) at the=2 0insistence of his publishers. This caused McClory to start a series of legal battles that continued well after Fleming's death, and even rambled on in some shape or form until McClory's death in 2006. McClory won the rights to make his own Bond film after ten years from Thunderball's theatrical release had elapsed. What resulted was 1983's Never Say Never Again, an unofficial, non-EON film that brought Sean Connery back to the role. The title was a joke on Connery saying he would "Never Again" play Bond (this story may not be a hundred percent accurate and may omit some major details, but it should give you a general idea of how this film came to be.)

It is also due to McClory's owning the rights to the SPECTRE organization and the Blofeld character that they never appeared in most of the post-60s Bond films.

As you probably guessed, the plot is more-or-less identical to Thunderball. Bond heads down to the islands to foil a SPECTRE plot, which involves the terror organization hijacking nuclear weapons and holding the world hostage. Bond has aged, and is more of an instructor than anything now - but following a health spa visit, he finds some intriguing details that lead him straight into the fire. Teaming up with long-time CIA buddy Felix Leiter, Bond sets out to deal with SPECTRE by any means necessary.

This film gets a bad reputation for no good reason. Just because it's not an official EON production doesn't make it an inferior work. Hell, it's better than at least half of the EON movies. Sean Connery plays Bond here very well, despite his age, and actually puts a new and interesting spin on the character, making him more human. He seems to want to retire and even (gasp!) eventually settle down with his leading lady. There are some g reat performances here, and it's great to see that this take on the Thunderball story makes Felix Leiter, played brilliantly here by Bernie Casey, a more important character (see? Casino Royale wasn't the first film to feature an African-American Felix Leiter!) Yes, some scenes do feel a bit dated, and in a few areas it lacks the classic Bond touch only EON could do.

But all in all, this is a more-than-worthy Bond title. Doesn't quite rise to the heights of the sixties Bonds, or even the original Thunderball, but it's better than just about anything that came after, including nearly every Roger Moore film. The film came out the same year as Octopussy, and while that film grossed more, Never Say Never Again is by far the superior movie. It was great to see Connery get one last shot at glory, and he does it nicely. Strongly recommended, Never Say Never Again gets 4 stars out of 5 (though I wouldn't put this one quite as high on the Bond pedestal as most the EON films I give 4 stars to. Do esn't mean it's not great though.)

Let me start by saying that Never Say Never Again, as an unofficial film, never got the Lowry Digital Images treatment that the official movies did. As such, home video releases of the movie have always been hit-and-miss affairs. This marks the first attempt to actually make the movie look decent, and for the most part, it succeeds. There's some print damage and dirt here and there, and grain does spike heavily in a few scenes. Likewise, the increased definition makes blue screen a nd rear projection work all the more obvious. But as a whole, this is the best Never Say Never Again has ever looked and sounded, and given its nature and history, it isn't likely it will ever get a better transfer than this. There's more good than bad points about the transfer, though.

Again, not an abundance of material here since it's not an official film and has never been given the Ultimate Edition treatment. But unlike older versions of the film, at least there is SOME bonus content here. Director Irvin Kershner (you may remember him as the director of The Empire Strikes Back, the finest film in the Star Wars series) and a Bond historian team up for a commentary, which is an enlightening listen. Four featurettes are included, while short they re a worthwhile view for the film. Topping it all off is a photo gallery. No, not a great collection of features, but I'm glad they bothered putting anything on here. It's at least an improvement over the bare-bones releases of the movie we've endured for so long.

Don't say "Never" to when you'll watch this film. Official or unofficial, it's a damn good classic Bond picture. Connery's last outing as 007 is an underrated classic that is waiting to be discovered, or in some cases, rediscovered. Don't pass this one by.