I don't know where to begin with Hero, in all honesty.  When I walked into the theatre to see Hero, I was thinking two things:  1) This movie is going to be awesome, and 2) I hope it shows some sort of individuality (critics said it was too similar to Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon).  Hero delivered on both of those notes.  I can't stress enough that the point of the movie is not to show people flying around and shielding arrows with silk dresses, that is just part of the overall effect.  The point of the movie is 'visual poetry'.  If you could imagine watching your favorite poem, it would be in the form of Hero.

Beside that, the movie itself is absolutely amazing.  The fight scenes will leave you breathless.  There is not a moment when you will ask yourself "Why did the director do that?"  Some memorable fight scenes are:  'The Fabricated Showdown' between Nameless and Sky, 'Falling Leaves' between Snow and Moon, 'Green Sheets' between Broken Sword and the King, 'Walking on Water' between Nameless and Broken Sword, and 'Library Encounter' between Nameless and Snow against Broken Sword and Moon.  Each of these scenes encorporates a different color into it to show the emotions in the fighters.  For example, 'Green Sheets' is represented by green, displaying the greed and selfishness of Broken Sword.  'Falling Leaves' is represented by orange for rage, followed by the transition to red, representing the lust and love both women had for Broken Sword.

The plot is very simple yet very powerful:  a Qin warrior who goes by Nameless has recently killed the three most feared assassins in all of China:  Sky, Broken Sword, and Snow.  As a reward, the King invites Nameless to drink within ten feet of him, the closest anyone has been allowed to come within the king since the assassination attempt on him three years before.  While Nameless recalls the story of how he was able to kill the three assassins as so many tried to do previously, the king devises his own theory as to what really happened.  When the truth comes out, it seems as if nobody is safe, not even those who have died.

Hero is an action packed thrill ride, but ultimately it recalls the unbreakable love between man and country.  Through tragedies and thriumphs, intimacy and heartbreak, the love from each of the characters can be seen to that of "Our Land".