First and foremost, I don't really care what I have been hearing from the  tabloids about Matthew Perry and Neve Campbell.  And when I heard this  movie is out, I was intrigued.  And when I've seen it, they were  sensational as they were paired up for the first time in this savvy  romantic comedy masterpiece. I picked this movie from Amazon the moment  Perry and Campbell were featured with Dylan McDermott (The Practice) in the  title cover of the DVD. The story is very original of its kind since  "The Object of my Affection" with Paul Rudd &amp; Jennifer  Aniston.  In "Object of my Affection", a straight female falls in  love with an openly gay guy and were not meant for each other romantically.  While in Three to Tango, we see quite the opposite -- a straight guy, who  is accused and misunderstood of being gay, falls in love with a straight  gal, who thought that he is gay and at the end, were meant for each other.  As intrigue comes to embrace the viewers, the movie is beautifully directed  and well portrayed.  The movie kicks off with two architectural partners,  Oscar Novak and Peter Steinberg played by Perry and co-star Oliver Platt  respectively, together pursuing a job opportunity with a Forbes' tycoon,  Charles Newman played by McDermott.  With  Newman's acknowledgment of their  gay status, Steinberg &amp; Novak was awarded its big break except for  Oscar Novak, who is being misunderstood of being gay, was given additional  duties to spy on the tycoon's mistress, Amy played by Campbell for a  suspected romantic relationship between her and  a hunk football player,  Kevin Cartwright played by Clyk Cozart.  Wait what you are about to hear  later when Kevin confesses his attraction to Oscar.  And wait to see when  Oscar was selected and honored as "Gay Professional of the Year".  It's chaotic fun just like the good old days.  Towards the end, Oscar  confesses his true identity during his honorary speech and his love for  Amy.  The final act is a kissing scene between Oscar and Amy, which put the  viewers to draw their conclusions.  For the movie theme, it's love conquers  all.  But for desperate fans searching about the truth, I hope that Three  to Tango is not some desperate attempt into reversing what's been said on  the tabloids.  Actually, the movie is a hit when these two were paired up  for the first time. Adding to the praise is the superb musical score.  The  swing era of the 50s and 60s is well adapted to the atmosphere of humor  around this modern story.  So if you're expanding your gay library, or if  you're just starting to build one, or if you like Friends and Beverly Hills  90210, then you'll like this one.  After all, Perry &amp; Campbell are just  among the youngest &amp; cutest stars around.