Believe it or not, there was actually a time when the now famed "Good Will Hunting" was just the little-movie-that-could.  When it was released in the late 90s, America was under the mighty "Titanic" spell, and any actors who weren't named Leonardo or Winslett basically got ignored.  In fact, for what it's worth, the film was not a major blockbuster by anyone's standards.  The director, Gus Van Sant, had somewhat of a cult following (thanks to previous movies such as "My Own Private Idaho") but little else. Matt Damon (who plays the lead) and Ben Affleck (who plays his friend) were still Hollywood mid-carders. The only thing the film had going for it on a marketing level was Robin Williams.

But low and behold, audiences began to click with it.  Damon and Williams had an on-screen chemistry that rivaled Leo's and Kate's, and the screenplay (written by Damon and Affleck in college) was...well, brilliant (it eventually won an oscar).

In case you don't know, the film is about a troubled Boston youth (Damon) who is from the wrong side of town but posesses  a brilliant photographic academic mind.  Damon eventually begins seeing Williams, a therapist, and the story goes from there.  The tone and theme are very academic and carpe-diem, similar to another Robin Williams film, "Dead Poets Society," but with a more gritty edge. It also seems influenced by the classic Peter Schaffer play, Equus (probably a mere coincidence, though) in that the film straddles the theme of the therapist ultimately becoming the patient, and vice versa.

The film has achieved somewhat legendary status among college students over the years as THE inspiring story about love, friendship, loyalty, and plunging into the real world. Whatever the case, if it wasn't for this movie, Damon and Affleck would most likely not be where they are today.  It was the oscar that they received that truly made Hollywood open its eyes to the duo.  It's a shame that they both seemed to have possibly peaked as far as creative energy is concerned.  Lets hope not.