While many viewers who have also read the book might not consider this movie to be quite so good, I adore this movie and consider it the best of the four films. Although I was a bit dissapointed with the lack of Professor Snape in the movie, I was charmed by the cast and found the performances for the most part to be truly believeable and touching.

On the other hand...there are a few things about this movie that bothered me (along with the other viewers who are also fans of the book series by J.K. Rowling.)

1) No Dursleys- This was by far possibly the most dissapointing and infuriating offense that I have with this film. Prehaps the director thought that the movie could start off w/out the memorable escapes that Harry manages whenever he is stuck with the Dursleys in the summer, but I treasure that as one of the highlights of the movie, and I was especially looking forward to this one.

2)Voldemort- I was so dissapointed when the big bad was revealed. While I do believe that Voldemort for the most part is faithfully reproduced in the film, I was hoping that he would be a bit more...menacing, more...evil. The portrayl of Voldemort was good, but...he seemed kind of weak in comparison with the Voldemort described in the book.

3) Amos Diggory- Now the character overall was great. The only thing that I thought was a bit dumb was the scene where Amos is grieving when he learns that his  son has been murdered. It didn't resonate with me. Also, I was so dissapointed by the way Harry was carrying on. It just seemed fake to me. I liked it but...

4) No Set-Up - THis was by far the 2nd most dissapointing part of the movie for me. In no way shape or form did they movie set up events for the 5th movie/book, "The Order of the Pheonix". There was a part in the book where Dumbledore begins planning for the assembly of the "old crowd", a quote that was absent in the film. Also, the ending didn't mesh with me at all. Good, but something that might have been more appropriate in the 3rd or the 2nd movie. Not this one.

So, while this film wasn't perfect, I do consider it the best of the four, and it is one that everyone should add to their collection. Five stars for sure.