Fireproof portrays the failing marriage of two twenty-somethings who have seemingly "fallen out of love" and are on the verge of divorce.  Caleb, the husband played by Kirk Cameron, is insensitive to his wife's needs and interprets all of her actions as demonstrating a lack of respect.  Respect comes easy to Caleb at work as the Chief of the Albany Fire Department in Albany, Georgia and he is constantly bemoaning the fact that the only person in his life that he apparently can't command respect from is his own wife.

His wife, Catherine, has become cold and aloof and resents Caleb's addiction to internet pornography.  The distance between them has become a chasm neither seems motivated to close and both lack the tools to accomplish.

After an explosive argument Catherine reaches her breaking point and says she wants a divorce.  Caleb is certainly not surprised and just as fed up with their marriage as she is.  He is resigned to the fact that they have fallen out of love and that there is no going back, explaining to his Christian friend at work that they used to love each other, but have become different people.  Caleb breaks the news to his father on the phone and his father decides to take a trip and visit his son in his time of need.  During his visit his father urges Caleb to turn to God and give his life to Him.  Caleb is happy that his parents are at peace with their newfound faith, but insists he does not need a "crutch" to help him in his own life.

Caleb's father asks his son to hold off on the divorce for 40 days and tells him to expect a package in the mail.  The package contains a book with 40 days' worth of "Love Dares" that are designed to turn the couple back toward each other.  I appreciated the fact that the Love Dares did not result in immediate marital bliss. Catherine rejected Caleb's attempts to "be nice" and in one scene hurls the scathing words at Caleb that make him want to throw in the towel: I do not love you.  In the meanwhile, she is quickly falling for a handsome doctor at the hospital where she works in public relations.

But the message of the movie is that love is a decision and should not be based on fleeting feelings, but rather on the Lord's plan and design for marriage.  The Love Dares are based on the principle of selflessness and being a servant to your partner.

Kirk Cameron's acting was excellent; the others were mediocre.  The movie's greatest flaw was the unrealistic support that Caleb received from both his father and his Christian friend at the fire department.  Few men have the unfailing devotion and support of a wise Christian father to guide them through difficult times in their marriage.  Furthermore, the depiction of life at the firehouse was idealized.  Caleb would have faced far more temptation in real-life.  In reality he would have had male friends who were urging him to ditch his wife and blow off steam at the local strip club.

Despite its shortcomings, the movie is good and the message is much needed in a world where the divorce rate is well over 50%.  Some will be turned off by the movie's strong evangelism, but it is a Christian film after all.  As other reviewers have pointed out, we should be more incensed when the movie industry glamorizes infidelity rather than a movie that urges couples to turn away from sin and not break their covenant.