Let me start by saying.. that the meter wouldn't let me give it Bullets. This thing isn't worthy of 1 star. It's worthy of 5 Bullets, and that really isn't enough. The title alone should tell you how bad this thing is. They couldn't even think up something catchy, no.. we get the amazingly bad title "Brainiac Attacks". Maybe someone thought this was a cute spoof on "Mars Attacks!" Someone get some monkeys with typewriters. One of them's bound to come up with something better than "Brainiac Attacks."

This movie has NO redeeming qualities whatsoever. The acting is attrocious. Lex acts like a complete dork, Brainiac shows.. EMOTION???? Superman acts like the worst aspects of Terry (from Batman Beyond). He even steals one of Terry's lines from Justice League (Epilouge) When he questions telling Dana that he is Batman, and Amanda Waller basically yells at him about it. The whole bit about putting her in danger yada yada. This is a complete rehash from that episode, except JLU was better done.

The lack of Bruce Timm's influence shows in this horrible creation that should be burned rather than be released to the public. The storyline makes little to no sense, the characters don't remotely follow the established DCU cartoon formulas or personalities.

First off the timeline doesn't match up with anything. I guess this occurs somewhere between the end of TAS and the beginning of JLU but it's hard to say since there's no real matchups anywhere.

Secondly the characters.. yeah it's better if I just compare them to their TAS counterparts.

Lex - Corperate joker as opposed to Hard Nosed, No Nonsense, Businessman who can weasel his way out of anything. The mistake this Lex makes in the end the REAL Lex would have NEVER made. Nor would Lex in the presumed timeline (ie before JLU) ever put himself in danger or be concerned that the military might not like his weapons designs. I mean come on.. this is primarily what Lexcorp does..

Mercy - Goes from hard edged, highly intelligent bodyguard who doesn't take crap off anyone (even Lex) to bad rendition of Harley Quinn.

Brainiac - Oh dear lord. Brainiac engaging in Combat Banter? Who the heck is he The Joker? Someone call Mark Hamill he's going to be voicing Jokeiac now. With such classic lines as "I've got Brawn to go with my brains now" Brainiac goes from soulless emotionless source of evil to second rate thug in a robot shell. Spider-Man does quippish combat dialog, not Brainiac.

Other little things bugged me like, oh Brainiac isn't the core of the Fortress of Solitude, like part of him is in TAS and JLU.

Brainiac should already possess all the knowledge of Krypton. In the established continuity he harasses Superman with the fact that he's the only other survivor of Krypton. Why does he need all this knowledge again?

Another thing.. Brainiac calls him Kal-El not The Son of Krypton.

The Phantom Zone.. Umm.. how exactly does Superman get in there without a projector? Since when could he just randomly open portals into the Phantom Zone?

If the fans can remember continuity SURELY the writers of this dreck could have bothered to do something that resembles research and at least made us feel like they were trying? Hmm? Too much to ask apparently.

Jimmy thinking Mercy is hot? Well sure she is.. but.. when exactly did Jimmy develop a crush on her.. and how exactly did when he was shown snapping a photo of Lex with Brainiac in his hand (Lex is slicker than that by the way, not this 2 bit Con Artist crap they were doing with him) did this photo fail to appear in Jimmy's pile?

Mercy's stockings randomly disappearing. At least I assume that's what that shading on her legs that kept randomly disappearing was supposed to be, and she did wear black (grey?) stockings in TAS so I presume that's what that was supposed to be.

The dialouge.. oh god.. the dialouge. YEE GODS I've heard better dialouge in the 1920's versions of Superman.

The animation was jerky, clipped, and while it met with the basics of the style of the old TAS series, you could see where there was clear and evident further devolving in the quality from the TAS series. In both shape of the characters who are blockier than ever, and the smoothness of the animation which was about as smooth as a pothole laden backstreet in that part of town you don't want to go to anyway.

Anyway I digress the DVD this thing is on isn't worth replacing your free AOL disc as a coaster. (At least that was free). Show DC Studios that we won't accept this sort of paltry nonsense from them and DO NOT BUY THIS DVD. If you're a true fan of the TAS series, you're doing yourself a favor.