I've tried Hemalayaa's older videos, her Yoga for Urban Living & Dosha Yoga & felt though she has good intentions, she didn't have enough body awareness to be teaching something that is focused on having that ability & cultivating it further. She was good that her videos overall would keep someone who doesn't work out regularly heart rate up. Since this is just dancing, I figured this might be her strength, but I was wrong.
The menu choices include: Intro, Play, Chapters, Bonus Performances, Music Options (music only, music w/narration), & other videos from Acacia.
The other videos clips are Hemalayaa's Yoga for young bodies for 1:30, Yoga Trance Dance :30, Duncan Wong: awakening level :30 (he's awesome), The Elaine Petrone Method 9:44 (has a lot of video testimonials)
The Bonus Performance was same music showing Hemalayaa w/two girls in slow motion fade in/out clips of them dancing for almost 3 min, then Hemalayaa alone for 3 min w/paused video, slow mo, double video effects, etc. to make the dancing look better then it is & you can't follow along with this either.
In the intro, Hemalayaa says is from Bangra, which is from Northern India dance (big, bold, sassy, & outrageous)& incorporates modern dance, hip-hop, even belly dancing.
The 2 backup dancers are Juju & Kimberly (who's also the stage director & consultant). In the credits, these dancers were dead last which is very unusual.
The chapters are:
Warming (6 min), Playtime Begins (7 min), Footwork (6 min), Now we're hot! (8 min), Ground Play (6 min), Playful Dance (5 min), Cook it now! (9 min)
The set is gorgeous, with colors & textures, the music is fun, but it's looped after a few seconds & gets annoying after a while wanting to hear the rest of the song.
One of the dancers didn't know when the next move was herself many times which is annoying & shows they didn't practice enough. The voice over cuing was ok, She didn't really break anything down, or really give any body movement instruction to help you understand how to move, but since easy moves, it isn't so bad. She just tells you to "get down, let go, get sassy, dance like no one's watching" throughout.
At the playful dance portion where she is alone, she narrates kinda a routine, but very repetitious. She has you do a goddess move where you move forward toward the tv pushing one hip out leading... then does a literal hip-hop running man (moving backwards) though she does it in a more simplified/corny style & alternate those. She said it's natural they go together & "the running man is RUNNING AWAY.. actually he's running fwd toward the goddess..." Which makes NO sense.
There were some good ones, but very few. I got bored with the repetition. You will get your heart rate up since she incorporates a lot of hopping... like hopping 3x in a row to one side, hop & wiggle your gluts, then the other many times or other moves like a pony from the 50s in an Indian style or other moves that have knee lifts.
The idea is there, but I still don't like Hemalayaa's style or think her ability to dance was good enough to be teaching. I found myself following the background dancer who knew the routine instead.
If you want a hybrid Indian dance that's corny, silly & helps you let go because it's easy & silly, this is for you.

You can see a preview at the distributer Acacia com