Hi!  I'm the rating system.  Have we met before?  I'm not sure if we have since I see a lot of people shocked by the content of the movie.  Anyway, I show up to let people know what to expect when they see a movie so that they don't witness something that they don't want to see, and instead see something they do.  Or, I give warning so that they can enjoy something they know they won't be offended by.
In this movie, you can find me shaped like a big letter "R."  Why?  Well to start, there's a lot of bad words.  Also, there's some graphic displays of sex which only adults should see.  Don't forget the violence too!  Now keep in mind, "R" means that if you're under 17, you shouldn't see this movie since you're not mature enough for it.  For the rest of you, ask yourself, "If a 16-year-old might be shocked by this movie, will I be?"  If it's yes, don't see this movie.
Now then, if the stuff I've listed doesn't offend you too much, or you don't mind it in context with the movie, you'll like this movie!  In order to know what shape to take, I had to sit through this whole movie.  After watching it, I realized that if you're to enjoy this movie, you can't judge Eminem by the musician he is.  I know because sometimes I take the form of a "Parental Advisory Sticker!"  See, on Eminem's CD's, he tries to shock you.  In this movie, he tries to tell a story.  He's not the same person in both!
In this movie, he does a great job of telling that story too.  You really feel like you understand what he's going through even though you might be from a small town in Kansas.  From being a shy laid back guy who's trying to keep his family going while trying to be a success, to discovering his talent, Eminem left me feeling that I want to be the best rating label I can be!  I'm sure it left others feeling like they can do anything too.  I can't promise that you'll like every scene in this movie, but as long as you take a look at what's in the movie based on what I tell you, I think you'll make the wise decision.