This is one of the funniest movies I've seen in quite some time. I have to give credit to anyone who would agree to have anything to do with this movie, because there's some crazy stuff here. A very, very, twisted take on the "Little Red Riding Hood" story, featuring an illiterate prostitute as Red and a serial killer/rapist as the wolf. Aren't fariy tales fun?
Anyway, this modern adaptation of the story follows said prostitute Vanessa (portrayed excellently by Reese Witherspoon) on her way to her grandmother's house after her parents are both arrested. On the way, she meets child psychologist Wolverton (Keifer Sutherland), who she learns is in fact the notorious I-5 killer. After attempting to kill him, Vanessa is arrested and sent to prison, where she meets even more fun friends to share her adventure with, including a disfigured inmate played by Brittany Murphy, who gives a great performance as well. I don't want to give too much away (I've probably said too much already), but I can tell you that this is one funny movie, and if your sense of humor has a dark side, than this just might be for you.
I thought that one of the best things about this movie was Reese Witherspoon's performance, although I doubt that many "Legally Blonde" fans will like this movie much. She does a really great job with her role and is completely believable. The scene where she [possible spoiler here, so be warned] encounters Wolverton for the first time since the shooting is too funny and shows that she really was a great choice for the role. It's too bad that she doesn't do more films like this instead of Legally Blonde/Sweet Home Alabama/what ever other terrible movie she's working on next.
As for the rest of the actors, there's some other performances that are certaintly worth mentioning. Keifer Sutherland does a nice job as Wolverton, although I didn't think his performance was all that amazing. Brittany Murphy does a good job, as do the 2 guys (whoever they are) that play the cops. All performances are pretty good and I didn't feel that there was anyone here who did a bad job.
While the performances here are all at least decent, I think that the aspect of this film that really got it all the attention was the script. The dialog in this movie isn't the kind that you come across too often. You've got to be pretty brave to try making a movie like this, even in an industry as permissive as film. I can imagine that there was probably some feirce opposition to this movie at one time or another.
I will warn you that if you're even a bit sensitive, this movie may not be for you. This movie is a lot of things, but for the easily disgusted it's not. It's bound to offend lot's of viewers with the profanity, dark humor, violence, sexual content, and all the rest, but for those who can appreciate a little sick humor every now and then, I encourage you to give this movie a try, there's a good chance that you'll like it.