I have quite a few things to say after seeing this movie and reading almost every review on this site.  Every comment from those that loved it to those that hated it.  From the 15 year old that shouldn't have been let in the theatre w/o his Mommy in the first place to the "top-rated critic" that prolly had more expectations then all of us put together before they even went in the theatre.  I'm not saying each person doesn't have their own basis for their opinions, but it seems everybody has pre-conceptions for a movie of this hype long before they even give it a chance.  Drop your expectations and you'd be surprised how much you can enjoy ANY movie.  However, I'm going to start with my personal opinion and try my best not to include any factual information yet so bear with me:

First things first, people that cry and whine about the gore and "degrading" representation of women and nudity and the fact that you can't relate to the characters - what exactly did you in all your teenage/feminist ignorace expect from a rated R movie called "SIN CITY"?  It's seems to me that so many uptight people automatically see or hear something that SEEMS a certain way and they don't bother to think into the hidden meanings.  The hookers that show skin but are tough as nails simply show the adversity and determination of women to struggle through the pimps and killers and fight back the only way that ever gets things done.  So many bleeding hearts want to believe that war is bad, but they shouldn't deny the fact that the changes that COME from war are necessary.

Secondly, I am an aspiring actor and a movie buff beyond many peoples' understandings.  Do most of you nay-sayers even understand how difficult it is to "act cheesy"?  I've done quite a few theatre shows, and as a mandatory skill, you have to overact.  You HAVE to be cheesy to appropriately pervey the meaning behind the plot.  I truly believe the acting was exceedingly excellent and not as easy or crappy as so many of you haters think.  Each charater was shown in the way they needed to be from the pages of the comic by their respective actors/actresses.  When a director tells you, "Ham this up and be corny!" you friggin do it and hope you do it well.  And they all did just that.

Finally, again, only as my opinion, I believe this movie was an original, complex, risque masterpiece that needed to be done before someone else did it WRONG.  Do you people truly believe the directors/writers said in the middle of a scene, "Hold on!  We shouldn't put that in, people might get offended."  Gimme a break folks, what the #@$! do they make movies for?  Movies are an escape from reality and are meant to tug at your emotions, even if that happens to be disgust or hate.  Actually, do you haters dislike this movie because maybe it's a little TOO close to reality for your tastes?  Does it scare you only because this seems to be what our world is working towards?  Good deeds are never rewarded...evil lurks everywhere, even where you least expect it...the beauty that you see on the surface doesn't always match underneath...  That's what this movie really shows and I think it bothers alot of you.  This is the underbelly of what our planet is slowly building towards and that makes you mad that we can enjoy it as entertainment.

Now, the facts:  This movie was as original as they come.  It had very distinct lessons to learn from EVERY character.  It had star power that each showed off, if anything, their diversity.  It is true to the comic and is an amazing genre-bending story that has been attempted and failed at every time...until now.

My suggestion to anyone reading these reviews that hasn't seen it (or that have and simply want to hear others' opinions), don't think too hard when you watch it.  Don't pick apart what you do and don't like about each scene.  Watch the movie and, at the end, decide for yourself.  You'll either love it or hate it...there doesn't seem to be much middle ground here.  Use your brain and not your eyes to figure this one out.

Personally, as a wannabe actor, a movie freak, and a comic book artist/reader I can't wait to own this one and put it at the front of the stack!

the jokA