Many of the 4 and 5 star reviews mirror most of my feelings for this film so this'll be a short review. Just a couple of thoughts to underscore my overall positive rating.

I'll agree that the film might have been too long but if you were to ask me what I would cut the only answer I can give revolves around Bill the mule escaping his fate at the hands of an army cook. Would this shorten the film? Er, no. So I don't know, hell, shorter sex scene? Well, there's three minutes. I guess if a talented editor really sharpened his scissors you could trim fifteen minutes. I just couldn't make it any shorter than that without destroying it.

I read a few of the one star reviews and they either mentioned the film butchered the book (like that's never happened) or it was too long. One reviewer went on to say that it could easily have been a success at two hours. Really?

Otherwise, I liked the movie and feel it is original, well written, patriotic, well acted and executed with sincerity and not in the tongue-in-cheek manner of "Waterworld". (I was not a fan of WW and consider it a horrible film though I loved his boat and the color of the water.)

I do think this film suffered at the hands of critics for the fact that it does share common elements of WW (Post Apocalypse/Loner/Evil Band) and "Dances With Wolves" (Wilderness/Loner/Evil Band). Of course Costner is going to be held up to very sharp light after "Dances".

Another observation, where are you going to find a movie made with that kind of scenery? In those locations? The locations where this story was set became a character in itself. No ruined cities, suburbs or ghost towns here. This is the first post Apocalypse story set in the far west with wonderful vistas and rough topography, not to mention the weather.

Hey, do you suppose the Postman realized he was going the wrong way after he snatched the kid's letter? Man, I would have filmed that scene without the turnaround, oh yeah. Just a shot of him seeing the kid down the road with the letter. Bam! Got the shot, got the letter and still headed in the right direction!