Hi, these are some additional comments with respect
to my last post regarding the dvd version of
'Highlander':
I did a little more research.  It turns out that when
this movie was released, there were two versions, an
American version, and a European version.  The American
version did not have the additional six minutes of
footage where the relationship between McLeod and Rachel
was explained.
Anyway, I watched it again, and still think the American
version was superior.  In the American version, the
relationship between them is not explained, but it is
obvious that it is a platonic one.  So you're left with
the impression that McLeod doesn't allow himself to fall
in love with anyone since the death of his Heather,..
until Brenda enters his life.
The American version, in my opinion, is better because
in the European version, if he is willing to adopt Rachel
as his daughter it kind of leaves a logic gap as to why he
wouldn't want another romantic relationship with someone
over the course of 500 years.  Single parenthood, when one
is immortal, doesn't quite add up.
In the American version, you get the impression that
Rachel is in love with McLeod, but he simply doesn't
feel the same way towards her.  You're never told
how come she knows he's immortal, but the fact that
she does, and that they still have this platonic thing
between them, makes it really cool, and makes the
growing love between him and Brenda even more 
meaningful.
Yeah, I know, I'm splitting hairs, but I think the
American version was the more romantic one...Then again,
because this movie made such an impact on me when I
first saw it, maybe I'm just not comfortable with
another different version of it, even if it is the
'director's cut'.  Given DVD technology, you would think
it would be possible to toggle between the US and
European version.  
I really wish it was possible to order the American
version of this film on dvd, even though when it first
came out, it didn't do very well in theatres, stateside..
Which is probably the reason the American version isn't
available on dvd.