Aaron Eckhardt, handsome, cleft-chinned male

icon, is perfectly sleazy as one third of

the K street Merchants of Death triumvirate,

MOD,  who hang together at the intersection

of K and Madison, for shared comfort against

the blows of goody-goody reformers who fail to accept

Corporate America's heritage of toxicity and death

from lethal commercial products.

I can't recall the third leg of this trio.

I know its at least alcohol, and Eckhart represents the

tobacco industry.  It would make perfect sense

if the Asbestos Industry had a public relations

arm at the intersection of Madison and

K.  The filters on the late Steve McQueen's Cigs were

sculpted from asbestos you know!

William F's vastly more talented son Christopher

Buckley authored  Thank You For Smoking in the immediate

wake of the Henry Waxman Tobacco Company CEO pledge at a

House Hearing in the spring of 1994.  Another hot

smoking title is Cigarettes are Sublime.  The Cig

Culture is so hopelessly funny, absurd and cynical

that it rates right up there with the Holocaust

for comic potential.

I didn't really warm to it until I learned

that Ivan Reitman's son Jason, who is in the Mel

Gibson film-making entourage, included a scene in

his screenplay that is so in violation of current

political orthodoxy that he deserves a special Nobel

Prize for Cheek!

Yes, that's right, he put Buckley's baby seal clubbing scene

into the movie.  A man with that kind of moxie deserves

to have the world at his feet.  I never thought much of

Reitman Senior.  He's a scholockmeister.  At least his

son has the carefully cultivated tastelessness necessary

to produce art in this age of carelessness and despair.

Without it, we wouldn't have this classic film.

Think of what the smoking debacle has led to:

All fiftystates have made deals with Big Tobacco

in the periodsince 1994. Smoking has fallen from 35%

to 20% among Americans. NASCAR has become a vehicle

for foisting Winstons on unsuspecting race car fans;

Second-hand smoke has become a nemesis to rival

smoking itself, and actors who smoke in film product

placements now fake the deep drags they take from their

Cigs. I watch Bruce Willis' drags carefully, to rate them

for sincerity!

Reprobate smokers gather in small groups to grieve over

their losses, while anti-smokers devise new and even more

debasing and malevolent remedies for bringing the remaining

reprobates to heel!

Truly, Cigarettes, the culture, have become sublime, quixotic

and hilarious.  Just being alive today is a pleasure.  Almost

like walking a mile for a camel in 1954.

Thanks for Smoking Us Christopher Buckley!