This film is now more than thirty years old, but its pertinence for our warrior present remains. I don't suppose a motion picture can truly alter a cultural perception any more than a popular novel can -- unless it is confirming a societal change rather than attempting to create it. So Joseph Heller's great 1961 novel stays in print and is read by new generations of high school and college students, and yet the reflexive embrace of war as an apt enterprise is still only questioned by a marginalized minority.
Watching Mike Nichols' fine 1970 film adaptation, one can almost assume that director Nichols and writer Buck Henry (who also plays the part of the snide Colonel Korn) have resigned themselves to the inevitability of the real "Catch-22," i. e., that for the same reasons that everyone in the movie behaves insanely, the audience will realize (yet agree to) the very same insanity as soon as they leave their viewing experience behind. 
"Catch-22" the film is permeated by the world-weariness and desperate defiance of Captain Yossarian, the bombardier who doesn't want to bomb, played with a manic deliberation by Alan Arkin. The "catch" is that no matter that he realizes how capitalism and war are so madly linked (in Jon Voight's fascist businessman, Milo Minderbinder, whose "M & M Enterprises" is a literal representation of that infamous military-industrial complex), the only answer he can find is to flee. Orr, the other sane insane person (played with a kind of intense restraint -- or restrained intensity -- by Bob Balaban) succeeds in escaping to neutral Sweden, which is (or used to be) the emblematic democratic socialist state; so Yossarian finally follows because he can change nothing about the U. S. warfare state; indeed, he can only be co-opted by it: recall the repulsive Colonels Cathcart's and Korn's nefarious deal to "like us!"
Today, even Sweden has been forced into "privatization" and a systematic erosion of its socialist vision. But Sweden's image during the Vietnam War (in the midst of which Nichols' film was resonately produced) was as another Canada, another blessedly humane escape from America's "endless wars." Now it seems that there is no place to escape to; the American behemoth strides the globe, much like M & M Enterprises. 
Remember the exchange between Marcel Dalio's "old man" and Nately, portrayed by an achingly boyish Art[hur] Garfunkel: the old man confidently asserts that "believing in everything (therefore, nothing)" will allow at least survival, but when Yossarian returns to the brothel (to inform Nately's [lady] that Nately has been killed in Milo's "just business" bombing of their own air base), he is told that even the old man is "dead." So believing in nothing but survival is no guarantee of survival at that.
This is a very depressing film; it's meant to be. It has some very amusing scenes, however -- especially the ones featuring a querulous Orson Welles as General Dreedle, Austin Pendleton as his nerdy son-in-law/military aide, and the buxom Susanne Benton as Dreedle's WAC. And then there is the Olympian beauty of Olympia Carlisi as the object of Yossarian's gentle lust, the prostitute Luciana. (Nichols satirizes Stanley Kubrick's somewhat pretentious, otherworldly "2001: A Space Odyssey" by using the now-all-too-familiar opening notes of Richard Strauss' "Also Sprach Zarathustra" to announce her initial appearance.) A few gentle scenes between Arkin and Carlisi are this movie's most warming moments, for -- as the dying Snowden keeps repeating -- "I'm cold." Cold, indeed.