A Superlative once in a rare while Cinematic Gem that crosses and transcends both cultural and filmmaking barriers! A Ten out of Ten, Two Thumbs Up as Siskel and Ebert would have said!
Actually my title is a play on this years' Oscars prime contenders for the Best Film award. So this film review is as much as extolling the movie Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon, as well as acknowledging its counterpart in this crucible of film excellence.
What is it they say about Hollywood, they "so love an epic", well then it was no coincidence that this years raisons d'être for the Oscars owes a lot to two cities or should I say classical cultures a sort of East meets West saga, a quintessential Yin &amp; Yang juxtaposition, every bit about classic and ancient cultures &amp; philosophies as well as blockbuster filmmaking at its best!
From the coliseums of Rome (that's the other movie) to the grandeur of Peking, the desolate beauty of the ancient Silk Road to the lush, verdant Chinese Bamboo Sea and snowcapped peaks (of Mongolia?), a forbidden love affair unfolds, of two star crossed lovers, and of another subdued and hidden yet poignant/noble love.
The movie is very much story driven with multifarious underlying themes and incisive dialogue (yet there are subtle nuances that are sadly always lost in the translation/dubbing) intertwined in a hypnotic and magical portrayal of events occurring in as Ang Lee himself said... "kind of a dream of China, a China that probably never existed, except in my boyhood fantasies in Taiwan"... an allegorical setting of ancient feudal China, but likewise having the dimensions of a cultural epic. There is the depiction of feministic beliefs and behavior of our heroine the strong willed and free spirited Jiao Long Yu (Jen) portrayed by newcomer Zhang Zi Yi in contrast to the chaste, demure and elegant love of Yui Hsui Lien, played by Michelle Yeoh, for the enigmatic Li Mu Bai, the indomitable Chow Yun Fat. The fast paced brilliantly and impeccably choreographed action sequences by Yuen Wo Ping (of "The Matrix" fame) in contrast with the almost surrealistic landscapes that served as a backdrop to the unfolding of an epic love story. 
Again kudos to Ang Lee whose direction is singularly unique in its style and breadth and his cinematographer Peter Pau whose spectacular composition and rendering of the panoramic background landscape is nothing short of a tourist guides' dream package. Exquisite musical scoring by Tan Dun was brilliant, enchanting and heart stirring, certainly Yo Yo Ma's masterful rendering of the sweet, haunting, and melancholic strands of the love song and background theme did it no harm either. Definitely a must see film...in the Big Screen!!