Believe me when I say that this is NO regular action movie. This is the emotional story of a man, a cop, and a loving father. 
When Detroit cop, Alex Murphy, tries to capture the known fellen, Clarence Boddicker, he fails, and gets shooten to death by Boddicker and his men. When Murphys scream is heard all over the factory, the villains laugh with no sense of emotions what so ever. The loving father will never again return home to his wife and son, but they couldn't care less.
Murphy is then taken to a hospital. His body is dead, but his mind is still alive. Flashbacks comes to his head. He sees his son infront of the TV, smiling. He sees his wife, also smiling at him. He knows he'll never ever seen them again....
A company called OCP, are working on a "Robocop" project, led by a man named Bob Morton, to make an artificial robot. Everything on his body is metall, but his mind is still the same. 
After a while being Robocop, Murphy starts getting flashbacks from the day of his death. He sees his killer infront of him ... He knows he'll never have peace with himself until he gets his revenge...
Robocop is a film that you must see. Many people have this rule of judging movies by their title before even having seen them. ... I admit, Robocop is a cheesy title, but what about "Superman" or "Batman". They're both just as cheesy. Also, many people complain about all the violence in this movie, but in my opinion, I think its necessary to really show how bad Murphy is tortured! If this movie had been like Robocop 3, it would never have been the same! The violence and the swearing makes this movie more lifelike. People DO swear in real life, and people DO get shot in real life, and thats why Robocop is so good, because it totally reflects reality as we know it!
Peter Weller IS Robocop. Just as much as Christopher Reeve is Superman and Michael Keaton is Batman! Weller was THE number one choice for Robocop, and I'm glad they cast him. He makes this movie come to life. His facial expressions at the end are what I like the most. They will bring tears to your eyes...
I'm not gonna review the DVD, but I gotta tell you that its pretty good. The only complaint that I have is the grain in the alternate sequences in the Directors Cut version! Other than that, the featurettes, trailers, the commentary, the deleted scenes, and the storyboards will keep you entertained for hours!
Get this movie, or there will be trouble!