Once upon a time, I was a precocious two-year-old who memorized movies even if she had no clue what the words meant.  One such movie was Dr. Seuss' "The Cat in the Hat," the teleplay featuring the voice of Allan Sherman as the cat.  The story ruled, the music ruled, Dr. Seuss...owned.

Once upon another time, I was an awkward 11-year-old in an awkward class of sixth graders in a coach bus on their way back from a long field trip.  We thought our teachers were SO COOL because they allowed us to see a PG-13 movie, even though NONE of us had yet turned 13.  Said movie was "Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me."  Naturally, we ate it up faster than you could say "green eggs and hormones."

Fast forward to late 2003, when I sat in the movie theatre with my good friend Michelle.  The last time she and I had gone to the cinema together, we'd seen "From Justin to Kelly," and I suppose we were both determined to make it up to each other.  So I figured, hey, a talented and comedic lead actor playing the coolest cat that anyone's imagination ever conjured up--what could possibly go wrong?

I spent the length of the movie trying desperately to like it.  Trying desperately to enjoy seeing Austin Powers go undercover as a children's book character--dirty jokes and all.  Trying desperately to smile during the scene of cupcake-making.  Trying to laugh during--what?--Paris Hilton??  It worked fine for "Zoolander," but that woman has no right to stick her oddly-shaped nose into this production!

The only failure more miserable than my own attempts to enjoy the movie was the movie itself.  I feel awful for Dakota Fanning and Spencer Breslin, who would have been the perfect Sally and Conrad, but they were as lost in this film as penguins in Hawaii.

Don't worry, Audrey Geisel, it's not your fault.  Permitting the production of this movie was a mistake anyone could have made.  I trust that in the future, you'll be more selective about who gets their grubby paws on the rights to your late, great husband's immortal masterpieces.

And Michelle, we'll get it right someday.