Here's a wonderful gift idea.  Buy this DVD set as, (I hate to call it), "filler", between your usual movie watching. This is a great warm-up to an evening of DVD viewing or a nice night-cap to end your day. I will also add here that I've only gotten through half of this DVD set as I write this commentary.

The first few disk are very good. We get a nice setup of the coming stories and the characters are firmly established in this whimsical comedy. Actor, Ken Berry, delivers his hokey physical gags, Forrest Tucker and Larry Storch are the goofy comedic team and the supporting oddball cast quite nicely round out these zany adventures. The black and white format adds to the "old-time" feel of the western time period. It's like looking through a demented old stereoscope image from the 1800's. I'm sure there will be some who are offended by the portrayal of the Native Americans in this show. "F-Troop" could never be made today because of all the politically-correct fascists among us. But, hey, as a product of the 60's I don't think it colored me with any particular negative view of anybody. Actually it showed me how we all have a comic bent to each individual. Melody Patterson's portrayal of Wrangler Jane is an example of a spunky little scamp who hangs with the best of the boys; especially her beloved Captain of the fort, Wilton Parmenter. There, at least everybody won't be offended.  :-)

Here's where I see a problem ahead. I'm just at the halfway point of the set and I'm starting to see some obvious repeats of storylines. This is uncomplicated stuff. I'm not expecting high-brow intellect, but I have to wonder if this would become annoying on long sits through episodes? Right now I'm good but as I mentioned before, I'm not watching a ton of episodes one right after another.

As a DVD buy I think it's worth the money, especially if you can get it on sale as I did. What do the future disks hold, or for that matter, season two? Hey, I don't know but it's not hard to guess. More zany adventures!!! Right?!?! I'd advise you take your time with this set and enjoy the many little gems of comedy generously dispensed in each show. Don't rush this "fine wine" of whimsy but savor each sip of this 40 year old vintage. As stated and as rated, I say it's four stars.