Now, I'm going to be honest: this is technically not a review of the set itself, though I will discuss it. This is more of a review for the film itself, Singing in the Rain, which is one of my favorites. The film stars the absolutely superb Gene Kelly as Don Lockwood, a silent Hollywood star who is sucked into the advent of sound films along with his partner, Cosmo Brown, played by Donald O'Connor. Their is just one problem: Don's leading lady Lina Lamont, whom he despises, has the voice of a thousand cats screeching at the top of their lungs. A miracle appears in the form of Kathy Selden, the love interest, who has a beautiful voice and dubs Lina's dialogue, but when Lina hears that the studio wants to replace her with Kathy, she brings up her contract, which prevents the studio from doing such a thing. It's a classic conflict, and it leads to a wonderful plot, but the real show is the music. Along with the classic "Singin' in the Rain" routine, there is also "Good Morning," "All I do is Dream of You," and my favorite, "Make 'em Laugh!" Gene Kelly was a notorious perfectionist, making Debbie Reynolds (Kathy) dance until her feet bled, due to her inability to dance, but it was worth it (mostly) to see some of the most spectacular dancing and singing in film, nostalgic of the old days when showmanship was all that mattered. The only flaw I can find is the "Dancing Cavalier" sequence, which sets up the plot for the film they were making. It is a bit too long in the tooth (30 minutes), even if it is spectacularly staged. A minor complaint, though, that doesn't detract from an amazing film. The film itself gets a five out of five. Now, onto the extras. From what I can see, it has the usual: documentaries, deleted scenes and outtakes, production stills, trailers, and, not surprisingly, a  small collectible umbrella (GET IT?). It all seems well and good, even above and beyond, but what I'm excited for is the transfer. This is the first time it's on Blu-Ray (that I'm aware of), and, this being a very visual and colorful film, I am excited to see how they spruced it up. So, overall, if you haven't seen the film, or want to have the ultimate experience with the film, then pick this up, because you do not want to miss this classic.

EDIT 4/27/12: I just found out that the film has been marked up to the original 80 dollar price, so I'd like to point out I wrote this when it was only around 50 dollars, which I though was pretty good for a great film and nice extras. Still, $80 is a bit much, so I'm going to say, if you haven't seen the film, or are on a budget, WAIT FOR THE INDIVIDUAL BLU RAY RELEASE! If you have seen the film, then perhaps get this when it is cheaper, because the extras seem really nice.