I first saw this film on PBS in the '60s and never forgot it.  Still hum the waltz theme from the ball scene. Recently I spotted the Kultur DVD set online, practically dropped dead with excitement, and clicked "purchase" without doing any research.

It never occurred to me that such a poor quality DVD might be for sale (for $40!!) at major online retail outlets.  Some of the scenes in Part I are so dark I can barely make out the image.  The sound is a bit scratchy too.  I started to wonder if this wasn't videoed surreptitiously in a movie theatre.

Apparently the Ruscico version is far superior in quality, if more expensive ($70) and not without its own problems (see other reviews).  Also, if you don't own a widescreen TV monitor, you may still prefer this Kultur full-screen version, which avoids the annoying "letterbox" effect -- though of course at the cost of cutting parts of the original image off the screen.

Despite its many defects - if you love cinema, BUY THIS FILM.  Even the less than ideal audio and visual quality of the Kultur print cannot mask this film's greatness, its eye-popping scope, its dramatic story, its haunting music and memorable imagery.

And definitely get a version where you can hear the original actors speaking in Russian (with English subtitles).  The majesty of the Russian language is central to this film, and you will feel it even if you don't understand a word.  (The occasional Russian overdub of French dialogue is a minor annoyance, nothing more.)

If you have read and loved Tolstoy's epic novel, fear not.  This film is as faithful to the original as was Peter Jackson's film to Tolkien's trilogy - if not more so (I'm still annoyed that Jackson went for a "Die Hard"-style dispatch of Saruman off Orthanc in Part II, omitting Tolkien's nuanced 'Scouring of the Shire' in Part III.)

A lot of reviewers complain about the "psychedelic 60s" filming techniques Bondarchuk used, but I think they misjudge Bondarchuk's over-the-top directorial style, which seems perfectly in tune with the traditional Russian penchant for emotional excess.  This is no dry literal retelling of Tolstoy's narrative arc -- it tries to render, in cinematic terms, an impassioned yet faithful account of the emotions of the participants in this drama.  If it misses its goal here and there -- you cannot deny the greatness of the very attempt.  (Q: Who else but Bondarchuk would or could have made an oak tree into a central character?  A: Tolstoy.)

A lot of reviewers also dismiss the message of the film as  Communist-era propaganda, but I'd say again that that is a misreading of the film, which is patriotic and Russophile only insofar as is the original novel.  (PS: the Commies didn't invent love of the Russian fatherland.)

Even in its diminished condition (memo to Spielberg: How about financing a proper restoration?), this is one of the single most memorable films you will ever be privileged to see.