So rarely do I see a film that I consider "art," but I believe that Keith Gordon has painted a near-masterpiece of the vibrant "hues" of two decades in our country's history. On the surface it is a love story, but as you begin to scrape away the layers, much more is revealed.

"Waking the Dead," in its non-linear structure, opens in 1974, as Fielding (the always brilliant Billy Crudup) is hearing news that his girlfriend Sarah (Jennifer Connelly) has been killed in a car bombing. We are then taken to 1982 when Fielding is being chosen to run for a seat in Congress. As he comes closer to reaching his life-long goals, Fielding begins to be haunted by the past. He believes that he is seeing and hearing Sarah. Did she really die? The film continues to flash back and forth between the two eras, in order to inform us of the impact the past has on the present.

Sarah is an allegory: whether she is really alive is irrelevant. She represents Fielding's lost passion and idealism. He needs to feel these again if he is truly to fulfill his "destiny."

Director Keith Gordon colors each era in appropriate thematic tones. The 70s (passion, nurturing) are drenched in rich, sun-kissed hues and the settings are warmly accessorized: bookshelves and kitchen cabinets overflow; colorful rugs and tapestries abound. The 80s (greed, cynicism) are cold and blue. The floors are bare; the kitchen has only rice cakes. Many scenes are shot in painterly composition. The cinematography is breathtaking.

And the acting...well, it is superb. Billy Crudup so inhabits this character that he takes you with him on his journey to madness and back again. I know of no other young actor who could so capably convey an emotional breakdown without descending into schlock. Jennifer Connelly, before her Oscar-winning role, is most convincing as the girl who would haunt you forever. There are some wonderfully realistic exchanges between the two, particularly one that is a three-minute, unedited scene of an argument.

The DVD is a worthy investment. The colors are more vibrant and the letterbox format allows you to take in every detail. And the director's commentary and deleted scenes are well worth the $15. You will learn that much of the acting was improvisational - which makes it all the more amazing - and you will learn how scenes are lit, rehearsed, etc.

There are certainly a few flaws in the film - the dialog is a bit clunky at times ("ambition is the ice on the lake of emotion" ???) -- but this is a brilliantly directed, beautifully photographed and well-acted film.