I'm 53 years old and have loved John Wayne since first seeing him at the movies as "Hondo" as a boy. I loved Rio Bravo, but have to give the edge to this remake.  As good as the original was, El Dorado is more enjoyable and convincing to me.  The Duke is as good as he ever was in his usual role as the hired gun with a conscience whose reputation alone strikes fear into the hearts of the bad guys.  Few western actresses could match the young Angie Dickinson in Rio Bravo, but the male supporting cast is better in El Dorado.  Mitchum is excellent, young James Caan adds charm and humor and Arthur Hunnicutt nearly steals the show in the Walter Brennan role as Mitchum's loyal, but crusty deputy, Bull.  For my money, Hunnicutt is one of the great homespun character actors of all time and this is certainly one of his very best performances.  Most don't know his name like they do the great Walter Brennan's but he's just as good or better.  A then noname Ed Asner and Christopher George (TV's The Rat Patrol) are excellent as the main bad guys.  George is actually somewhat likeable as a man willing to sell his gun to the most odious of crooks, but still possessed of a sense of fair play.  Jim Davis (Jock Ewing of TV's Dallas) plays one of Asner's henchmen.  This is just a great cast telling a great old west story.
A recent biography of director Howard Hawks points out that Hawks badly needed a hit late in his career when El Dorado was put together.  His effort is evident.  Even the opening credits are great--a series of beautiful western paintings by Olaf Wieghorst, who also appears as the gunsmith, "The Swede."  The title song by George Alexander is memorable as well.
BTW, the poem Caan keeps quoting, which serves as the foundation for the title song, was Edgar Alan Poe's last poem--"El Dorado", of course.  The movie was filmed just west of Tucson, AZ in what is today Old Tucson--a must tour for anyone interested in westerns. Westerns are still filmed there.  Movies filmed there include Rio Bravo, El Dorado, McClintock, and Rio Lobo by Wayne, as well as many others such as Joe Kidd, Tombstone and even The Three Amigos.