Other film reviewers have characterized Nicholas Ray as primarily a strong director of film noir and other dramatic creations that focused on the individual's psyche. Many of his films attained cult status, many were relatively low budget, i.e., In A Lonely Place, On Dangerous Ground, etc. This film is quite different from them. The screenwriter, Philip Yordan, wrote many hard-hitting dramas spanning three decades, and this screenplay continued his excellence in realistic, spare dialogue. There are no long-winded speeches in this film, and it achieved its purpose largely because of the way Ray directed it.

Yordan collaborated with Nicholas Ray on a few other films, and the two of them have fashioned, in King Of Kings, a similar dramatic structure taking place two thousand years ago. If one is a sensitive person, he or she will automatically be drawn to this film. Nicholas Ray had a definite romantic streak in his soul, which was amply delineated in King Of Kings' many scenes that can be viewed over and over. Pick virtually any scene in the movie, and you will not be able to stop yourself from feeling Ray's sensitivity portrayed in these bibilical characters. However, it is not just the screenplay and direction, but the overall production itself, that make this film truly memorable. I think that you have to be in the mood for the film's length, and it is a far cry from the visually stimulating films you see these days, ones in which the quick cut is the rule. Not for Nicholas Ray, though, and the viewer has plenty of opportunities to study the film's characters, since Ray's camera spends just the right amount of time on each of the characters' faces for us to feel their emotions. The characters' movements are key to appreciating the film; there was no other director who could convey feeling through movement.

The acting is uniformly excellent, aided by Yordan's realistic dialogue. Several reviewers have lauded Jeffrey Hunter's Jesus, which is deserved, while Robert Ryan demonstrated the range to accomplish the role of John the Baptist with great authority. Unfortunately, his role was typically short in that it left Ryan devotees again Jonesing for more of him in the picture. This was a sad state that Ryan seemed to experience in too many of his films.

King Of Kings' use of 70 mm Technirama wasn't lost on this DVD, which brings to true light imaginative sets, colorful costumes that one actually notices when watching the film. Orson Welles provided the stirring narration penned by Ray Bradbury. The reason that Welles allegedly dissassociated himself from the film must be viewed in the context of the film's background circumstances. The film was cut and pasted by Producer Samuel Bronston, and characters were deleted in the final editing phase. One can actually see British actor, Anthony Steele, in the background for a few seconds when Jesus arrives in Jerusalem on Palm Sunday. I would love to have seen the unexpurgated version of the film.

The acting is superb from all cast members; Hurd Hatfield's performance was called over the top by an Internet reviewer, an absurd statement. His performance was perfect in my opinion. Also, Rip Torn, quite appropriate, Frank Thring, complicated portrait, Harry Guardino *ignore the New York accent, Bridget Bazlen, Rita Gam, Viveca Lindfors, Siobhann McKenna, all well done, Lindfors and McKenna very affecting as their sensitivity, character actor, Royal Dano, emaciated but convincing in his cowardice, Ron Randell, Australian actor who should have had better success in Hollywood, Guy Rolphe and George Coulouris (their roles seem clearly to have been shortened, especially Coulouris).

I second the motion of 99 percent of the reviewers of this movie, i.e., those who liked and appreciated the film. It is a must-see, must own, particularly if you have a high definition widescreen television. The colors and cinematography, coupled with the continuously engaging score, are amazing. Some of the scenes were so gorgeously re-created that they brought back memories I had seeing the film in the theater when it came out in 1961. The technicolor really comes through when viewed under ideal circumstances.