I've been told that I read into movies more heavily than others -- that I see connections in the material that were probably not intended. I don't think that's the case with this movie. To me, this movie is a beautiful piece that is very well named. I'll warn you that my review does give away vague details and plot themes, but I don't think it will ruin anything for those of you who haven't seen the movie.

I say that the best writers SHOW us a character, instead of having pages of exposition detailing exactly who someone is, let their actions and the reactions of others speak. I believe they did a good job with this. Our main characters - Nick and Annie- are from "opposite sides of the tracks," if you'll pardon the expression. His upbringing is very monetarily comfortable, hers is not. But neither of them is happy. They are both living separate lives from the people who are supposed to be closest to them. And they are both trying to find a way out of their own personal hell. Nick seems like the perfect son (but he's too intelligent and independent to live the life others have planned for him.) Annie is the problem child - she's the typical teen no one knows what to do with or wants to get involved with. She has so much malice for the world around her. Both are acting out in their own ways against the expectations and limitations others have placed on them. There is a supernatural element to this film, but rather than a gimmick, I saw it used as a wonderful storytelling device. It allows us to see the rage Nick has about his life that he has had to otherwise hide. It also allows him to see a vulnerability in his mother she never would have shown him. And it allows him to see Annie for who she truly is - someone not past being redeemed. This movie plays with the idea of what really separates us from each other. I see the title of "The Invisible" also a reference to how each of these people move through the others lives. At the same time, this movie is definitely styled in a certain way. While the themes I've described can be heavy and philosophic, the movie keeps the story focused on (they show this in the trailer) Nick finding his body, and getting others to find him before his time runs out. This is the action and the main driving force of the movie. The rest of the themes I mentioned is just beautiful, well thought out, well acted, excellently cast window dressing. But it is an awesome view.