For me -- I found this movie far exceeded my hopes for it, which in turn were
much better than the niggling reviews from local movie critics.
Why the difference? Maybe because most people go to movies in order to find help in escaping from reality. They want war movies to be a clash of perfect heroes against perfect evil, or, alternatively, a moral drama of enlightened pacifists confronting the
perfect evil of war. In addressing the sensitive subject of human paranormal
abilities, they want either a total righteous debunking of "parapsychology, cold fusion and religion" (a curse chant I have heard from cetain folks in the halls of power), or
a kind of morality play of perfect omniscient and omnipotent heroes doing miracles. They approach all of life that way.
  This movie actually is relentlessly heroic in its own way -- in trying to chase the truth, in presenting an entertaining and important chapter of reality (both war and paranormal), and in trying to see at least some way thorugh the very challenging maze we are still facing.
  My wife (who was well trained to fight in Afghanistan about 15-20 years ago, but never went when folks decided it might remind too many locals of the movie "Barbarella")
did not like it quite so much, even though she too is a realist. "Who could believe this? Especially that part about Barney?" So we went to google ... (regular google, on "Iraq Barney").
  I wouldn't really empathize fully with any of the main characters. I really, really do not like or respect the attitude of certain folks regarding LSD. LSD is a disaster in many ways. But the movie had to mention it, to be true to the real-life drama.
LSD did play a decisive role in wiping out the army's activity in this area -- and
that, too, is very clear in the movie, and needs to be remembered.
  On the other hand, we really should not be self-righteously dismissive of "hippie style thinking." Some of us still remember that Jesus Christ himself engaged in a lot of hippie style thinking -- and some of us believe it would be a huge mistake to
be totally dismissive of his style of thinking and feeling and trying to "let the scales fall from your eyes." He who has an ear, let him hear.
  The movie concludes with the thought that "we really need Jedi." This is worth thinking about. Certainly we have more than our share of Sith Lords in the world today -- from Al Qaida to Cheney. The alternative view is that our situation is already hopeless, as nuclear capabilities proliferate and groups who would misuse them also proliferate, and freedom for individual humans erodes in subtle but decisive ways
all over the world. Still, there are huge challenges in trying to fill this vacuum,
and it would not work to just rerun the imperfect (though important) efforts of the past. The biggest challenge would be how to prevent corruption at the top from screwing it all up as it screws up many other things, such as the eroding capabilities in access to space. The next, of course, is how to insert real science so as to upgrade the best of what can be found from prior history, of which California is only one small part.