Something happened to me yesterday. Something I was surprised to experience for the second time in recent years. I saw this film, a film I had heard , but never really new the subject of. I was sitting there, in my living room, absorbed by the intense truth of A Home At The End Of The World.

  What pulled me in was not the plot or the gimmics used to draw the viewer in, this is not the case of this film, but the complexity, the humanity and the love that came out, that transcended the screen and reached my soul, my heart so profoundly that this morning I found myself walking around in my appartment still feeling the emotions, the attachment, the pain, the love and the lives of the three people  I came to know.

  The story, as most of you probably know by now, centers around three people (from the sixties through the eighties) and the relationship they form together, the complexity of their souls and their need for the other two. And that's what's so poignant here : their need, especially Bobby's need to feel that everyone around him is happy and well. Each one of these three need something from the other. It can be Bobby's fear of being alone, Clare's need for some sort of stability or Jonathan's need of being the most important person in someone's life.

  So when the end of this film comes and Bobby, Jonathan and Clare have all faced life changing obstacles, accidents, and quiet moments, a decision needs to be make by Bobby. A decision that is both easy and hurtful for him and Clare because she has to make her own decision and does not know the reason behind his response. So when the small layers of personality that were handed to us about these people throughout the film form this deeper moment than what it could have been in a lesser story,film, as a viewer you sort of become one of these people,  the fourth player.

  At least that is what happened to me. A sort of revelation of what cinema can still be in our contemporary time,an experience that matches only my viewing of Almost Famous.Less an explosive spectacle than a life changing, soul refining, mind stopping instant in which I discover new people. There are no life lessons in this film I feel, only human truths and revelations about specific individuals.