Dead Silence. Boy was I so eager to see this when it was out in the movies, and when it came to DVD, I almost jumped out the week it came out to buy it. Thankfully, I never did, and then I forgot about it, until last week, when I found it on the discount rack at my local used DVD store. I thought this was one of the worst horror/thriller flicks that I have seen in the past few years (Valentine and Ghost Ship get honrable mention). The characters are so dumb, and I mean dumb, that it is laughable.I understand that some movies are based on Fantasy, so we are supposed to look past the things that are un-belivable and use our imaginations, but when you see how dim-witted the characters are (Donnie Walberg, that means you)you just cant even imagine human beings being so stupid nor can you even believe that this could ever happen. When we watch some movies that are Fantasy and we get so sucked in, we actually believe the events could have happened (Lord of the Rings is a prime example, unrealistic, but the story gets you so sucked in) The are no scares in this film at all, and why in gods name is this Unrated? or even rated R. It has no nudity, hardly any language, and just some disturbibing images, no worse then The Grudge. Check it out, and see what I mean. The acting is horrid, the story-line is a rip off of Dolls and Child's Play, and it is slow, and I mean slow. There is nothing here that shows good signs of a decent Thriller/Horror movie. I just dont understand some of the reviews being so postive. . Where are the thrills? Where are the parts that have my hair standing on end? Why in Gods name did I almost fall asleep a few times? OK, I will agree as I stated above that there is some nice eerie effects that gives the film a Silent Hill type atmosphere (the video game, not the stinkball movie) The score is decent, and the twist at the end, kind of makes you go..hmmm, that is pretty interesting, but that is about it. Just not enough to save the movie from the bottom of the barrel. If you are looking for a Thriller that is mostly story line, that will have you on edge the entire film, try the 1980 version of The Shining.