Having only read Anne Rice's fantastic novel after watching the movie, I had none of the expectations for this film that plagued the moviegoers who'd already fallen in love with the character of Louis, the vampire constantly at war with his own emotions.  I first saw this film at a younger age, sometime around 13 years old.  It had a profound impact on me then, as I had never had much chance to watch even PG-13 movies per my parents' authoritative rule over the content which reached me.  However, I was able, at times, to find ways in which to view films beyond their reach.  Many of these films I had to get from my older brother without his knowledge; films he adored and was able to purchase without my parents' intervention at 16 years of age.  Interview With The Vampire was one such film, and being such, it had already given itself to me as something special, considering its procurement as something of a long, drawn-out chore.  After viewing it several times over the course of a year, I had committed it to the topmost place in my list of favorite movies.

From the opening credits, I was enthralled.  Every milestone in Louis' life, every mistake he makes, every pang of guilt he feels captivated my interest.  It was at this point in my life that I'd decided Brad Pitt was my favorite actor (since supplanted years later by Johnny Depp), as he conveyed some of the most complex emotions I'd yet seen on film.  The dark undertones of Lestat and Louis' tenuous friendship sent chills through my spine.  Claudia's predicament, eternally trapped in the body of a six-year-old, beautifully portrayed by Kirstin Dunst, was as believable as anything I'd ever known, enhanced to a large degree by Elliot Goldenthal's mesmerizing score.  The film sparked my thoughts about the depths of human emotion, and what it truly feels like to be alone.  I believe it was quite influential in my development as a young teenager, and I am glad that what I took away from it was its philosophical ponderings, rather than the neo-gothic stylings some of my contemporaries decided to mold themselves to.

All in all, I recommend this movie very highly.  See it, enjoy it; if not for its action or drama, then for its music and philosophical value.  Anyone should be able to find something of value in Neil Jordan's cinematic masterpiece.