OK, I broke down and saw this film, despite all of the reviews.  Like everyone else, I like the first film, thought it was fresh and new, etc.  Well, this second film was off.
The main problem I had was that all of the funny gags were used in the preview trailer.  Rodger Ebert calls this a "Coming and Going Attraction: If you've seen the trailer, you've seen the movie." (Ebert's Movie Glossary, 43)  So there was really no point in suing this movie, since we already saw all of the comedy.
Secondly, the first film was funny because the humor was fresh.  The problem is that the humor was not taken to the next level, but the same types of jokes were repeated.  Seeing Jack Jeebs' head get shot off was funny the first time, but seeing it get shot twice was no longer funny.  There is a difference between telling a joke and merely repeating a joke.
To improve the story, first I would have begun with Jay and Elle as partners for continuity's sake.  She could have been an anal partner, or a bully, or what ever.  I would have Jay neutralize her, and send her back to the morgue.
Next, I would have T take Elles' place, and have Jay neuralize him after a misadventure, and then have Frank the Dog be the partner, but use it for juts one shot.  I thought the scenes with Frank were a bit overdone, and there was no chemistry between Smith and Blaney.  And the little black suite was more of a curtsy visual gag, but not really funny.
I thought it was interesting that Jay had two personalities.  When he was the senior agent, he acted responsible and decisive, but when he went back to being Kay's partner Smith started playing him as a buffoon again.  I'm thinking of the scene in the pizza shop where they puzzle over the old picture of Kay.
What is interesting is that people actually act like this: split personalities depending on who is around.  Orson Scott Card in his preface to "Speaker For The Dead" mentioned he had this problem in describing the Brazilian family with all the children:  he had to create about three personalities for each child depending on who was around.
Zed could have pointed out the difference in Jay's behavior at the end, and not have the weird locker-room scene at the end, which was really a retelling of the same joke that they ended MIB 1 with.  The point could have been that Jay and Kay need each other, or something like that.
I thought they had several subplots, such as the romance with Jay and the Light, but nothing really went anywhere.  This film is really an action comedy, and adding a romance element was just too much