I expected this to be pretty bad, but when i had first heard that Heath Ledger was doing a Knight's Tale i had high hopes of something worthy of the screen.  My stomach lurched when i saw the first trailer with "We Will Rock You" and other rock songs.  Now, an era movie with modern rock music is bad enough, but it got much much worse.  The Rock music wasn't merely a sound track but supposedly music of the time period and the characters dance, sing and clap to it!  The opening of the movie pretty much set the tone for me, villagers and peasants of medieval times "rocking".  What is the point of setting this in that time period if the aspects of such a time aren't respected??
The costumes were outragious and completely wrong for the basic time period (see through gauze dresses for the leading lady, impossible hair styles for the times, etc).  We are talking about a time when a christian woman must be modest and decently covered.  No ankles showing, hair covered etc.  Either do the movie as a proper "historic" type of fiction or bring it completely to modern times and have the jousting in the SCA tournaments.
The ONLY redeeming virtue of this film was the jousting scenes which were fun to watch and which they actually did some research and training for.  The villian was, of course, too good for the movie.. i can only hope the actor had no idea what he was getting into.  He was great in Dangerous Beauty.
It's pretty sad, but I enjoyed Ten Things I Hate About You when i saw it on DVD because i had refused to see what i thought of as a "teeny bopper" movie when it came to theatres.  I did the opposite with this film, which was nothing but a total waste of time.  Though i wouldn't have minded so much if it was just purely jousting scenes with all the other nonesense cut out!
I gave this 1 star for the jousting... and that is it.  The plot, the characters, custumes were a joke.
Basically if you want to watch Heath's pretty face go ahead and buy this movie, if you are a "purist" or know one thing about medieval times don't even bother, you will get frustrated and bored.  If they come out with a "jousting clips" DVD, sign me up!
Sorry, Heath, I hope you don't disappoint me next time.