Loosely based on the 1954 murder case of Sam Sheppard - whose son fights to clear his father's name to this day - 1960s television created an added dose of drama by allowing The Fugitive (the late David Janssen) to escape from prison, and hunt down the man who murdered his wife in cold blood.
Perhaps never in the history of TV was a plotline so ripe for the treatment (and budget) afforded by the big screen - and, perhaps, never has it been done so well.
Harrison Ford plays Doctor Richard Kimble, a Chicago-area vascular surgeon ("What the hell is that?" asks one of his pursuers. "Someone who makes a lot more money than you," answers another in the easy, natural humor of two people who've worked together for years) who seems, at first, too good to be true. A philanthropist respected by the community, loved by his colleagues and adored by his wife, you can't help but wonder if there's trouble in paradise, despite the shadowy presence of Helen Kimble's (Sela Ward, bringing remarkable life to a dead woman, thanks to flashbacks) killer.
Chicago's finest quickly come to the same conclusion, and a damning 911 phone call by the dying victim seals Kimble's fate - a death sentence!
Fate, however, has other ideas. One of four survivors of the most spectacular - and controversial - train wreck ever captured on film, Kimble sets off to blend in to the Windy City's skyline long enough to find the man who took Helen from him. He has plenty of clues to start him on the trail; his biggest enemy not so much his pursuers as time itself.
Deputy United States Marshal Samuel Gerard (Tommy Lee Jones, who won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor), meantime, is as dogged as his prey; so determined to capture "my man" that, when confronted by the fugitive Kimble and his professed innocence, snaps back, "I don't care!"
Though Gerard isn't "out to solve a puzzle here," Kimble is, and with equal persistence. The plot that led to the death of his wife is revealed in tense, dramatic fashion to the audience as Kimble himself learns it - and learns who has betrayed him.
What remains, of course, is whether his time has run out.
Ford's Kimble is what many people would consider an oxymoron: A truly benevolent, honest doctor. Best known as the almost-reckless Indiana Jones, Ford plays Kimble as a highly intelligent man who uses his wits and a level head to keep one step in front of not one, but two groups of adversaries.
Hot on Kimble's heels, Jones' Gerard does Ford one better by creating a lawman walking the thin line between pursuit and obsession. "Never argue with the big dog," Gerard admonishes his team, when Kimble shows up "not dead yet" - proof, yet again, that "the big dog is always right."
Hunter and prey, cat and mouse, Jones and Ford present real people trapped in a deadly game. The viewer quickly bonds with Kimble and roots for his success, while not quite able to root against Gerard. "It's alright if you catch him," we seem to be saying, "just, not yet!"
A supporting cast including Joe Pantoliano, Jeroen Krabbe and Julianne Moore (in a small, but pivotal role) is equally up to the task; never did anyone's performance feel like they were acting, and the rich range of emotions coupled with crisp pacing, a riveting storyline and a properly brassy soundtrack adds up to one of the finest films ever made.
Virtually every person on Earth has seen The Fugitive; buy the DVD, and you'll never forget why.