The War Lord is an unusually deft and accurate interpretation of the Middle Ages when one considers its origins as a film made in 1965.  This is an unglamourized, stripped down vision of feudal Europe, with a broken down castle, trash on the floors, drafts and damp even in the lord's tower.  No tinsel here, but instead a careful examination of the social order.

Charlton Heston's Sir Chrysagon has been awarded a fiefdom in the backwoods of beyond, where his small troop of soldiers must maintain the peace with the Druid natives.  A peasant girl attracts Sir Chrysagon, and complications necessarily ensue, while the knight continues to ward off besieging Frisian raiders.

Heston's War lord is like a 1950's businessman in chain mail, obliged to carry out impossible assignments on behalf of his overlord/boss.  He is grim and humourless in a demanding setting, with only the parish priest, Maurice Evans, as a source of rueful wit.

The treatment of the druidical practices is particularly interesting, as there are visual references to the Green Man and to the spirits of the wood and stone.  Sir Chrysagon and his knights are wary of the villagers' pagan faith, and fears of witchcraft lurk in the background.

I highly recommend this film, both for its lush photography, strong narrative, excellent acting and melodic score.  Heston's strongest performance was as the wily Cardinal Richelieu in Richard Lester's "Three Musketeers" -- but this performance is a near match.  It is proof that Heston was more than a 'star.'  When given a strong script, the man could *act.*

Richard Boone deserves a word of praise, as the right hand man to Sir Chrysagon.  Although I normally associate Boone with Westerns, his tough persona translates well to the 11th century.  If you stop to think about it, conquerors of Europe in the 11th century were similar to gunslingers in America in the 1800's.  They were beyond the pale of civilisation, with only their weapons and wits to preserve them.

So get this film if you enjoy a more thoughtful and informed approach to history in cinema.  You won't regret it.