Al Pacino in one of his best roles as world weary, cynical, sardonic and burnt out Central Intelligence Agency recruiter. His craggy, wrinkled face show it ALL. A veteran of many covert and clandestine missions internationally, he recruits the hero by mainly playing on his unconfirmed belief that his father was a CIA Intelligence Officer who was KIA in Peru. Filmed on location in Canada where the woods are used to represent The Farm, which is the CIA's training facility in Virginia. Its correct name is Camp P____. Here, the recruit of the movie title learns tradecraft which in spy talk is how you do what spies do. He learns ELINT or electronic intelligence like bugging and so on. The recruit learns too the black arts of killing with bare hands or machine guns. He meets the love interest in the movie who is a fellow recruit. Later, he even bugs her while pretending to be deeply in love with her. The classic scene in the car park is where she says, "..we have 18 seconds before the CCTV surveillenace cameras pick us up." This leads to a super passionate rip your lips off kissing scene which is really well done. The Polygraph scenes are good too. The Polygraph is a a lie detector which Company employees have to undergo periodically. It is not foolproof as traitors uncovered can testify to. The resistance to hostile interrogation scenes are a bit overdone but what the hell, that's Hollywood. A dark, film noir type location is the Washington Navy Yard where everything comes to a head. The climatic scene is a ritual suicide where the bad guy who obviously chooses death before the State Penitentiary (I won't tell you who as it will spoil the suprise) gets cut to pieces with 9mm rounds from Heckler & Koch MP5A2 SMGs fitted with laser sights. In real life, you simply have to shoot to kill because a wounded target is even more dangerous. Moreover, people riddled with bullets have been known to shoot back and kill their opponent, so the 1 shot kill in real life is pretty much a myth (except for pro snipers). Some scenes were really filmed in the old building of The Company headquarters. A fascinating movie, with many thrills, spills, kills, suspense, a beautiful heroine in danger, and much else, what more could you ask for? A nice insight into the world of espionage where people lie routinely, and where nothing is quite what it seems. A world where the love of money often out-motivates the love of country. This is perhaps the reason why Spying is the world's second oldest profession. Enjoy the movie, then go back to your mundane 9 to 5 life, and be happy you are not a spy!