I just watched this movie yesterday with my wife (along with a family member) and I must say this was very revealing and convicting at the same time. I have to confess my heart about my own acknowledgement of the garbage I have put my wife through (and still do from time to time), about how similar I am to Vince's character in almost every situation. From playing video games (which I haven't done in over a year now - Thank God - I waisted so much time), not putting my clothes away (I'm glad I put them away before we watched this movie), and "needing" my 20-30 min. when I walk through the door to "unwind" before I deal with other situations that need my immediate attention. My wife on the other hand is very similar to Jenifer's character; very giving, thinking of others first, etc. While I may do that sometimes she is this way all of the time. It's amazing how opposites attract and how rewarding it is, but how damaging it can be if you are not continuing to learn from each others strengths and helping one another with each others weaknesses. I felt like complete garbage after the movie and didn't think that I could give my wife a hug. That wasn't the case at all, in fact my wife was mad because of the hard work that I have been doing in supporting our family and was actually upset with a person who was treating me badly about some of the decisions we have made as a household. Again, she is a very loving person that I'm very grateful to have. More movies like this need to be produced. I'm sure it won't happen, because many more hearts and consciences will be seared to the core as a result, as was mine. My only gripe about this movie is that they didn't write out a different ending for the characters. This was one of the rare movies where I was actually hoping for things to work out between the two of them. But I do understand why this needed to be written this way. By the way, my wife will be receiving this review and also a verbal confession from me. Thank you for this movie (i.e.; lesson).