EDITED:  Someone I respect greatly recommended this film.  No more film recommendations from this person.  The credits go on entirely too long, in part because there are 20 or so executive producers, Kim Basinger and Guillermo Del Toro included.  Del Toro's B-movie Mimic was great, but whoever recommended this Z-grade dog to him to produce should be fired (I mistakenly thought the lousy actor Benicio Del Toro produced this garbage--thanks to the person who posted the correction!).  I've since learned this was adapted from a short story, meaning the screenwriter had even less work to do to come up with a hopeless mess of cinematic tripe than I first thought.

Basinger plays a beaten-down housewife to an abusive husband (Sheffer), who ticks off a local gang (of four--a popular bunch) in a mall parking lot.  After they murder the security guard who attempts to help her, they chase her in order to rape and murder her.  Thus begins a formulaic and unrealistic chase and "perpetual victim realizes her power" story.  Other than the methods she uses to kill the punks, everything is predictable, including the ending.

Even with all that, there are some idiotic things that still nagged at me:

1) Basinger's character uses items from her car's toolbox to kill the punks.  Despite taking more and more things from it, it almost never rattles and gives away her position (it actually rattled worse when full).  Her gasping, freezing in place, shrieking, and urinating in the wide open do more to give her away.

2) The movie's set on Christmas Eve, but during most of the forest sequences, nobody's breath steams.

3) This movie contains a double cliche:  the too-intelligent multiracial gang.  The gang is PC to the nth degree with one Caucasian, one African-American (-Canadian?), one Hispanic, and one Vietnamese.  Gangs form out of common factors, race being the most obvious--can we please have a realistic bunch of punks on film?  They also don't use words like "incendiary" or look wistful when talking about "seeing the ocean just once."

If you want to see a good crime story with Lukas Haas, either get "Witness" or "Brick."