Another vampire movie?  Look again.  This is a tragic love story of significant emotional impact. The main characters, Eli and Oskar, combine innocence, maturity, knowledge, violent behavior, touching tenderness, and deep feeling for each other.  They are literally willing to shed their blood for each other.  The sadness felt by the viewer(or reader of the fuller novel) arises from his or her awareness of their tragic future.  Theirs is a love doomed, being unfullfillable sexually and in other normal ways.  Despite this fact, they must remain together because their need for each other depends on their survival. Yes, even in a sense, for Oskar. Will Oskar become another Hakan? We are chilled to consider that. But what is the alternative?  Such is the tragedy.
  Eli's story, as related in the novel, is one of sorrow. There is great poignancy in the meeting of these two.  They fall into each other's lives at the most necessary time for both.
  The performances of both children are outstanding.  Lina Leanderssons's Eli is a performance of heartbreaking naturalness.  Such "performances" can probably never occur again as the actor gains in experience and self awareness.  It is a rare thing to behold.  The soundtrack by Soderqvist perfectly expresses this atmosphere of innocence, tenderness, tragedy and foreboding all at once. Eli's theme, with its variations and the use of the acoustic guitar, is one of great melodic beauty.  The cinematography is equally enhancing.  The chill,white cold of the setting wonderfully supports the tragic theme.
  Is it silly to posit such meaning in a work of popular art, especially in one of such a base genre?  Perhaps.  But sometimes we find deep meaning and emotional resonance in surprising places.  I feel this is one. Ultimately it is the viewer or reader that is the key, bringing with him his personal experiences and personality in judging a work of art.  We should acknowledge that the artist can use any vehicle  to create and realize his view of the nature of life. We should not denigrate any form this conception takes but only ask that it succeeds.  In my opinion "Let The Right One In" as cinema and novel thoroughly transcends the form of " vampire story".