NOTE:  05/20/06 -- I paid three bucks to rent this "movie"--all I can say is, thank the powers that be that the one scene I was in ended up on the cutting room floor...this 'horror' movie is an abomination...I'd rate it half a shade above pathetic...YUCK

Copyright 2003-2006 Jannix

Ah, to be a glamorous movie star.  Ever wondered what that experience is like?  Do you dream of being able to sleep until nine or ten o'clock in the morning before you get up to start your day on the set?  Do you see yourself surrounded by bright lights and make-up artists in your warm trailer while they powder your nose and brush mascara through your eyelashes?  Do you think you merely press a button to summon a crewmember that will cater to your every need and drive you wherever you need to go?  Is that your idea of what it's like to be a movie star?

Forget it!!  Take all that preconceived fantasy and toss it into the trashcan.  For starters, extras were required to be on the set at six am for the days' filming. The principle actors were required to be there right behind us (many of them had been in makeup and wardrobe since four am.)  Since Westville was "the set," this meant I had to wake up at three-thirty am to get into my "costume," which were clothes I owned, (adhering to the strict instructions of gearing toward a "period" look, in this case the 1870's). I had to leave my house by four am for the 45-minute drive from Columbus to Westville.  Traffic was surprisingly sparse during the trip.

Upon arrival, I walked toward what appeared to be the entrance.  A man got out of his car and introduced himself as Rex.  We struck up a conversation, speculating about what events our day might hold.  A blonde woman in period costume joined us.  Rex, the blonde and I  wondered when we were going to be called in for casting.  Our speculation was interrupted by another extra walking by, stating there'd been an accident.  He was told that all extras should wait in their cars and the crew would call for us in about an hour.  As if on cue, an ambulance with lights flashing appeared on the horizon.  A few minutes later, we observed the paramedics loading someone on a stretcher into the ambulance to be rushed to Columbus.  After a lengthy wait, we took it upon ourselves to walk down to the extras area, where we were told to go to the staging area, the courthouse.

I quickly learned a background extra's life on the set is often tedious, sequestered on the set away from the principle actors, waiting sometimes for hours to hopefully be picked by the "wranglers" for a scene.  One of our wranglers, Maury jokingly said: "Welcome to show business."  As I shivered in the cool fall morning, I wished I'd brought a good book or a laptop computer so I could read, write or play solitaire while waiting.  Instead, I occupied the down time by talking to Rex and Hugh.

Rex and I were background extras, Hugh, a salaried actor, played the part of "The Preacher;" (don't get too excited, these actors get paid a flat rate of $100 per day.)  I found Rex and Hugh to be engaging individuals; I'm honored to have met them  On the morning of the second day of my extra duties, I was pleasantly surprised when Hugh greeted me and remembered my name.  I was scratching my head, attempting to remember his name.  I sheepishly admitted I was horrible at remembering names while shaking his hand then asked him to remind me of his name.

Movie making is a hectic process.  Extras stand around and wait; principle actors may re-read the script or hone their character portrayal.  Meanwhile the director, producers, sound technicians, and art directors huddle, plan and then hustle to get the scenery just right for the next shot.  For example, to set up a scene the camera people take lighting measurements and measure exact distances of the subjects to the camera to get the proper f-stop.  The continuity photographer takes still shots for later use to recall the exact position of the actors and props on the set.  This process can take anywhere from a few minutes to as long as an hour before filming.  Did you know it could take as long as two days of filming to get 10 minutes of on-screen footage?

Finally the time came for my participation.  I felt surprisingly calm, considering the fact I didn't have much experience on a movie set.  We were filming a scene in which the central characters arrive in the ghost town.  Wranglers placed us in the shot; I would equate it to a dance instructor showing us the "right steps."  The director gave us instructions, we were to jog and hop to the cars with big grins on our faces to greet our "guests."  I don't want to give away the movie, but the director set the mood for us by saying:  "Imagine you haven't eaten dinner for a year and it just arrived."  Laughter erupted among everyone on the set.

After three takes of this scene, we took a break.  I realized I was standing less than two feet away from Robert Englund, and waited patiently while he finished his conversation with another principle actor.  When he turned his back to the car he was leaning against, I quietly asked him for his autograph.  The only paper I had on me was my checkbook, and as I tore out a check he said:  "Last one;"  (I have no idea just how many dozens of autographs he must have signed that day.) He scribbled "Pay To Robert Englund" on the back.  He handed it back to me while repeating what he'd written.  I laughed; he has a tremendous sense of humor and is surprisingly down to earth.  As filming wrapped on the first day, I overheard him say, to no one in particular "...I could go for a pizza."

In some cases, an actor doesn't interact off-camera with anyone on the set, except for certain key people.  The actor's not being stand-offish or stuck up; the actor is attempting to remain "into character."  This means that an actor will assume the persona of the character portrayed, and it's imperative that he or she remain in that mind-set (one can't very well portray a psychotic vampire while everyone's vying for an autograph!)  Interrupt an actor concentrating on his part; the mindset the actor is portraying evaporates.

It was amazing how quickly two extras' egos inflated disproportionately to their heads while working on this movie.  One got autographs from everyone on the set, attempted to get up close and personal with Mr. Englund, and became a featured extra.  I'm sure he thought because the director noticed his good looks and acting potential. A rumor going around the set suggested that the principle actors had joked about him during dinner Monday night.  One allegedly suggested a "perfect" scene in which the man pops out of a car's trunk, for the "shock" effect.  Another extra raised a commotion about how she felt she was being "...treated like a dog..." and how she had "...real acting potential."  She also questioned why the extras didn't get "...hot food like the stars...not these [expletives deleted] wrapped sandwiches..."  This person was gently told by a wrangler that if she was "...unhappy...you should reconsider your participation..."  In other words; if she didn't like it, hit the road.

Rex and I were enjoying some down time after lunch on Tuesday when two locals happened by.  One of them asked us if we were in the movie. We said our participation was during background crowd scenes.  The same man asked me for my autograph.  I laughed and said he could have it, but that and $2.00 might buy him a cup of coffee.  After the gentlemen left, Rex and I just looked at each other and broke out in laughter..."Welcome to show business," I echoed Maury's words.

I had no delusions going into this project; I remember thinking:  "Hey, I'm an extra; a living prop.  I'm here for background decoration, nothing more, nothing less."  I participated for the thrill of it.  I would definitely do it again.  It was fun, despite the cheesy snacks and tortilla chips, the way-too-sugary pink lemonade; the cold mornings, the yellow-jackets, the periods of standing statue-still in place on set.  Besides, obtaining that autograph was payment enough, even if I don't make it into the final film.

Tuesday's filming stopped at five-thirty pm - 10? hours after the day's production began. We were led towards the exit from the set and introduced  to the executive producer of the movie.  He said:  "...movie making is a lot different than movie watching.  You all took a lot of abuse during these last two days, and on behalf of everyone here, I thank you all.  If any of you want to come back, we'll use you again."

I'm the one who should be thanking them.  I'll be talking about these memories for the rest of my life.

As they say in show business; "Cut! That's a wrap!"