You know how you tell the really important, ground-breaking films? They usually divide people right down the middle, and The Rules of Attraction is no exception. There are many people who just won't "get it", but for those who do it's not only one of the most fearless films of recent years, but one of the most electrifying, truthful &amp; downright poigiant "teen" flicks since The Graduate. 
Some people say the characters in this film are empty &amp; unlikeable. You have to look beyond that however, look underneath the masks they're wearing &amp; see what's beneath. All the characters in this film are actually completely likeable &amp; crying out to be loved, whether it be the "invisible" girl in the background (who subsequently commits suicide in a truly gut wrenching scene of unrequited love), or more directly Paul (Ian Somerhalder) who sets his sights on Sean Bateman (James Van Der Beek), but is similarly a casualty of misguided love. 
Some people have called this film "boring", however this is one of those films that only gives back what you bring to it. If you approach with an open mind &amp; enthusiasm then this film will reward you with emotions that are rarely approached or touched upon by many other films. You have to work at this one, you can't just watch it with your brain in neutral! Therefore, if you found this film boring then it's more likely you as a person who are "boring"! 
There really is something happening in this film at every moment, whether it be in the background or up front. If you fail to notice this then you really are watching the wrong movie..
One person asked "why did we need to see the suicide scene with the girl in the bathtub, as it was painful to watch"??!! I believe that is the whole POINT of this scene.. it's SUPPOSED to be painful to watch! This scene conveys the emotions of the girl who secretly has a crush on Sean Bateman, but is hardly even noticed by him. She is devistated, her heart is crushed, she cannot face life in this world without him.. so she takes her own life. Without this scene, her existence in the film would be rendered meaningless. With this immensely important scene we are shown that EVERYTHING, no matter how small or seemingly unimportant may have some meaning or connection. 
To end this film is like a mirror to the viewer, it's as "intelligent" or "empty" as the person watching it..