Greg Berlanti directs Life as we know it, a hilarious movie starring, Katherine Heigl, Josh Duhamel, and Josh Lucas. It is 114 minutes and is rated PG-13. That rating is a very appropriate and suitable for this movie. This story portrays two single adults that are to become caregivers to their friend's girl if their mutual best friends die in an accident. Though Holly Berenson (Katherine Heigl) and Eric Messer (Josh Duhamel) don't get along very well, they are determined to figure out their problems for the sake of baby Sophie.

After a nightmare blind date, Holly and Eric swore not to see each other again. Their very best friends had a baby and appointed them as the as the baby's guardians in an unexpected case of their death. The unexpected event occurred and the "enemies" has to raise their friend's baby together. There are many obstacles, ups and downs, and problems that they try to fix and work out...

The amazing film by Warner Bros. Picture has great acting pretrial. Ian Deitchman and Kristen Rust Robinson wrote this movie beautifully with touches of seriousness, silliness, and humor. The cast really fit their characters. Whether they were parents, friends, enemies, or work addicted, it really showed throughout the movie. Not only was the acting pretrial phenomenal, but so were the visual effects! The scene when little Sophie is about to take her first steps really shows how much Holly and Eric care for her. They both want to be there every step of the way for her since her parents can't be. If that means putting everything they had before this "new" life behind them in order for her to be there for Sophie, they will. That scene really sets the mood and feeling of the new "family".

The main theme of the film is most definitely survival through loads of struggles. The fact that your two very best friends dies in a car crash is hard, but now, in addition to their death, you have been chosen to be their child's godparents is even tougher. On top of all of that, you have to do it with the person you despise the most! Although life throws hardships at you, we learn that you can't let that bring you down. You have to make the best out of this. If life gives you lemons, then make lemonade!