The darker Treks are by far the most superior of Star Trek. When I look at these types of Trek I usually see what Trek should have been on TNG (on TV), Voyager, and Enterprise could have been and should be. These "dark Treks" are Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country, parts of Star Trek Generations, Star Trek First Contact and the subject of this review Star Trek Nemesis. While Star Trek: Deep Space Nine is hands-down the best Star Trek television show, Nemesis is almost the best film and the reason is that the producers took steps to go beyond the normal realms of television and family values. Deep Space Nine dealt with necessary evils, war, and realistic relationships, which include loss, and all the relationships had balance (like Kira and Odo...we know what happened!!! Can't be said about Worf and Troi in TNG). First Contact gave us realistic violence and touching issues. In TNG or Voyager, we usually saw our main characters misplaced in the past or future (and DS9 too) but in First Contact we get that "human" feeling of being lost and being thrust in a future universe. Nemesis, if not for intense cutting, would have been perhaps the most realistic, dark, and fascinating of the Star Trek films. What we are left with is almost on par with VI and First Contact (while none of the films can touch DS9) and is great entertainment despite what Trek fans know is not released.
 When I look at the DVD I see that the special features contain deleted scenes but what is truly lacking here (and I can say this though the release isn't for 18 days) is a "extended cut" of sorts (like the LOTR packages) in which all the deleted scenes are added into the film. This would make Nemesis the strongest Trek film ever. Some of the scenes cut are Data and Picard drinking wine, Crusher dancing, and explanations to why Wesley Crusher is at the wedding.
 I will admit that a lot of Nemesis and TNG lore in general is lacking. Troi and Riker have had a lot of build up but there have been so many holes in their relationship that the wedding seems inconclusive and unsatisfying. I also feel that Nemesis should have taken a DS9 approach with its characters by letting some of them go. Worf and Troi I could live without. I think Worf ended perfectly in DS9 by becoming an ambassador...but wait! he's back in Starfleet uniform. Just another large hole in the TNG plotlines. Besides, he has become the Gimli of TNG by providing old jokes and repetitive humor. One of the best things about the last season of TNG was Riker and Worf became very good friends but that diminished quick. What about Riker's ship... `naw', said Berman, `lets not bother showing it. I'm sure we'll make millions!' Millions less my friend! I digress. Nemesis is the victim of its own producing. They managed to produce a solid two-hour film but a fantastic film lie in its extra footage room. Beverly Crusher has always been a consistent companion to Picard and Ms. Gates has great chemistry with Mr. Stewart. There is one beautiful scene that had a lot of potential but is quickly forgotten as further scenes take it over.
 The truly fascinating thing about Nemesis is its villain. Next to all the movie villains, V'ger, Khan, Kruge, the God-thing from V, Chang, Soran, Borg Queen, and Ru'afo, Shinzon is perhaps the greatest of them all, and I expect a lynching for this, especially from Khan fans. But truthfully, what makes Nemesis great is that Picard finally meets someone who is his match. Picard always looks confused and taken aback by Shinzon when with every other villain from Q to the Borg, he can remain calm and defeat them with swagger. Hardy's Shinzon is amazingly captivating and though may be physically weaker then half the Enterprise-crew, it is his Picard like thinking and cockiness (from Picard's Academy days) that make him so threatening. Hardy and Stewart are amazing to watch. They shine with speeches of humanity, good, and evil. Though Nemesis is extremely action-oriented, the talking between Shinzon and Picard is the most captivating. Hardy is a great final nemesis for Picard. It is only fitting that Picard's final battle is against himself (essentially). All the characters endings are fitting except maybe Data's and if you haven't seen the movie I won't blow it for you but let's just say that Data's "brother" B-4 is a script saver just in case another film comes up, though the chances of that are slight. Riker gets one last fight, Worf gets one last fight, Geordi gets a very limited but special moment with his best friend Data, and even Troi gets to do something. That leaves out Crusher but what did the writers give her to do lately anyways. I see Nemesis as a fitting end to TNG that could have been better but still good in its own right though there are many holes and misplaced things due to editing that make the Trek fan and a casual viewer wonder, 'I wonder if Nemesis has more to offer'. The DVD might release some of that extra stuff but just like the Gladiator DVD, the deleted scenes could have made the movie thirty times better (at least from word of mouth for Nemesis) but the films themselves manage to stay on solid ground without the help of their wordy cut-backs.