I don't know anything about this film but so many people have

written in that it is a loser.

So I guess I'll have to pass.....

I am huge fan of UNDERWORLD-there's so much talent, and a REAL STORY.  I also like Milla Jovovich and am buying the ULTRAVIOLET DVD despite it's resemblance to RESIDENT

EVIL, which I also enjoy.  With Milla you're either are a fan or not.  I know Ultraviolet may not be that great but I think I will be keeper for my library ( of course! ) She's not Kate Beckinsale or Uma Thurman but what she did in the THE FIFTH ELEMENT is so close to my heart - she's special. And she did

do THE MESSENGER and be sure to see her in DUMMY, it's obvious she is a unique talent. I hope she gets more notice here in the US - The same for Kate Beckinsale.  I am so sick of magazines that have Teri Hatcher, Jennifer Aniston or Jessica Simpson on countless covers of the mags here in CA, USA - who cares! If there is an underground of heavyweights that watch stories like UNDERWORLD and THE FIFTH ELEMENT, FINAL FANTASY, I do wish we could see these heroines and heros get there share of the visuals.

And take note: Before they hand out the Academy Awards and Golden Globes, etc.,- I believe the "lucrative after market of DVDs " as Kevin Smith put it, would be taken into consideration.  Maybe ULTRAVIOLET

didn't do so well at the shopping mall theater they stuck it into but I know Milla's DVD of that same film is going to rake it $$$$$$$-when it is released.

I wouldn't watch BLOODRAYNE  on TV either - They'll chop it up

to a G rating for SCI FI  channel - forget that!

  I don't like commerlized TV - it interupts the story I am watching.

TCM and PBS are the only free TV I can accept.

As for BLOODRAYNE, I was hoping to find other films, character studies - STORIES! but I already have read/seen that 92 people wrote in with a vote of NO. WOW - if its that it must have been worth so many people writing about it. I guess it must be that bad.

I appreciate the longer, well versed/well written reviews.  And the person who wrote in that he/she desired to have their eyes

washed out with BLEACH is a real zinger - thanks!

Only if I get freebie at Blockbuster w/ my rewards card will I consider watching it ( I only have showtime on our limited but

free cable that comes w/the rent - I have no idea if they run this movie there).

Thanks all 92 of you who wrote in.

KMG