Couldn't sleep, had to stay up past 1:30am to quickly share a frank and honest, fair review of

 I returned home after midnight, only about 10 seated in a small cinema. I kept analysing the film during taxi ride home.

Flowers Of War

Having watched many other war-themed films, and having read reviews that the film is bloody and violent, I can confirm it certainly is. Audiences, be warned, there are harrowing scenes depicting violence especially against young women, and scenes of young girls being forced, dragged by their hair, screaming, kicking, clothes ripped ..taken to be raped by soldiers. *

If you can't accept such scenes, then please do not see this film.

And for the Japanese audience, as this film is likely banned from showing in cinemas,  anyone that is curious to watch, such as my friends Miki-san and Shin-san, if you are able to get a video and watch this film in Tokyo, please be further warned.. If you expected even one redeeming character amongst the Japanese in this film, there is none. *Clearly the Japanese soldiers are the demonized enemy here. Therefore, watch only if you have an open mind.*

Overall, it was a good film, to be fair, it was not a great film. I would give it a 6.5 to 7 of 10. And that is if you do not mind blood, gore and scenes of sexual violence.

The good.
Gorgeous lush cinetography.
Realistic sets and
Good sound editing such as machine gun bullets whizzing by, hitting through helmets.
Realistic grey morbid streets scenes full of death and destruction.
The beautiful old church.
Good job on costumes, hair, makeup.
A few sprinkle of humour near beginning of film to balance the dark nature.
The churchbboy caretaker named George.
Mo's exquisite complexion.

Flaws
About 10 -15 minutes in middle of film, the story that was flowing along fluidly and convincingly, suddenly faltered to a record screeching halt. The part of the story where two courtesans from their party, escaped from the church to return to the brothel to retreive the pipa strings for their musical instrument. That was the most contrived and unbelievable part of the film, that distracted the audience, making us the viewer ask 'what the heck?'

I only wish the director removed that part, or replaced it with something more believable to tighten up the plot, to make the film more compelling.

That together with a street scene of John running into a westerner named Terry, a friend trying to escape out of war-zone of Nanjing, and John asking if he'd seen the two women. This part was another unnecessary distraction.

I must share, these two tedious scenes took up at least 10-15 minutes of film, and was not very well acted either.

Love Scene
Now, I do not know if certain sex scenes were cut, it seemed there wasn't enough of the lovemaking scene between John and courtesanYu Mo. I would have liked that part expanded to show the tender love and romance between hero and heroine.

Memorable Scenes
There are three very memorable scenes, first is when the Japanese raid the church, and John's sense of courage and heroism is brought to fore when he try to stop the soldiers from further harming the girls.

The second is when the girls decide to act on their plan to escape the church. And thus, stop further violence against them.

And of course, the ending scene, which was very touching.

Christian Bale (Batman, The Dark Knight)acting the part as an American mortician John Miller shows his ability to morph from a selfish shallow drunken opportunist to redeem himself as a hero, as the film's story unfolds to reveal him becoming a caring, kind and gentle soul.

Bale's character John, does something heroic in the end, I won't share further, you need to watch the movie.

Some audiences may have had to take out tissues through watching the film, although my heart is hardened to such retchedly harrowing war films, nothing made me weep as much as the Cambodian war film The Killing Fields.*

For Flowers Of War, I did have a napkin handy to dry my face.