It's natural that all of the customer reviews for this movie elaborate on the military context.  From that perspective, there is nothing more to add that hasn't already been written - Twelve O'Clock High is a magnificant war movie made shortly after WWII, and is worthy viewing now, 50+ years after it was made.  Yet there's another context for the movie that bears discussing.

Twelve O'Clock High is one of the best movies on leadership that has ever been made, and there are lessons applicable to today's business world that every manager could benefit from.  This is not to say that managers/leaders should put in practice the various techniques employed by Gregory Peck's character, however managers/leaders can learn how a 'manager' changed a disenfranchised and demotiviated workforce of individuals into an effective, proud group/team.

Better than spending thousands on management guru's who ineffectively train potential management 'leaders', companies would benefit by watching this movie in a group setting and discussing some of the techniques/methods the Peck character uses to transform the squadron.  There's a common modern management technique for accomplishing corporate/department/individual goals - Goals, Objectives, Strategies, and Tactics.  This is a heirarchy, where a single goal is developed, then objectives developed to accomplish the goal, then strategies developed around each objective, then finally tactics developed around each strategy.

In Peck's case, the highest order goal was something like 'Create a precision bombing squadron capable of making daylight bombing runs into Germany' (as given to him by his superior).  In order to accomplish this goal, Peck had several objectives:  1) Executional excellence within all squadran functions; 2)  Allegiance to group over self; 3)  Accomplish missions with mimimal loss of life; etc...

A strategy employed in support of objective 1) was squadran drilling - relatively unheard of for battle-hardened squadrons (i.e. "What do we need to drill for since we've been on live missions?").  Another strategy was to highlight and learn from poor performance  - here, Peck's character used several tactics:  1)  Group review of individual poor performers at daily briefings, and 2)  Poor performers were assigned to a 'loser's plane.

These are just a few examples of many within the film, and certainly each can be argued for and against.  There is not a more difficult leadership task then balancing a person's life, or a small group of people's, against the lives of many within your responsibility.  What managers/leaders do in the business environment pales in comparison. Nonetheless, Peck's character did transform the group, under extremely dire circumstances and incredible performance/time pressure.  A fascinating movie, that any leader, or prospective leader, would benefit from watching.