"Heavy Metal 2000" is absolutely perfect for thirteen year old boys (who won't know any better) and other pervs that still have a picture  of that "Star Trek Voyager" girl stuck on their wall. Now why  would I say that? T&amp;A, blood, guns, and outer space all done in the  most laughable way imaginable. If that sounds good to you, then you should  stop reading this and buy it; you'll love it. But if that doesn't appeal to  you (gee, I wonder why), then pass. This movie is drenched in sex. There's  as many sexual scenes (nudity, sex, and sexual 'jokes') as there is guns in  the film; and you have your predictable shower and seduction scene too. And  it almost worked for this guy too. But, I have brain cells and a love for  movies with an actual story in it. "Heavy Metal 2000" have  neither. The story was horrible. The bad guy has a key to immortality and  Julie (that was her name, right?) stalks him after he kills everyone in her  town. None of the characters are interesting except for the film's heroine  Julie. Julie is your typical cartoon version of Angelina Jolie (huge  breasts, skimpy outfits, always seems to lose her clothes, and a bad  attitude; just like Mrs. Jolie herself! (joke)) and is just as ridiculous  as Lara Croft. Her appearance doesn't bother me, but the film wouldn't have  suffered at all if she was a guy instead. Julie has a way of getting stuck  in a lot of ridiculous situations. For example, the seduction scene with  Tyler and the part were she has to kiss some alien slob to get across lava  (as Julie says, 'If this is what it takes to get Tyler.....' I mean, come  on! How lame is that?). And that's the other reason I didn't like it, they  should've concentrated on the story, not her. She does get extra points for  lame one-liners that actually work and, let's face it, any woman who could  kill Pikachu is a-ok. With the exception of Julie's voice, none of the  voice actors are convincing. Where's Matt Stone and Trey Parker when you  need them? The animation does help save the film. It's definitely not  "Ghost In The Shell", but it does look nice. Throw in some  computer graphics for good measure, and you have a slick looking film. But  not enough to save it. It gets boring often and you wish there were more  suprises thrown in (not that lame attempt at a surprise for the ending  either, that was predictable as well). You've heard me bash the film, so  why the two stars instead of one? Well, the action scenes are good, the  animation is good, Julie (so what if she's a cartoon centerfold?), and I'm  being really generous. I doubt I'll ever watch this again though, I'll just  stick with "Akira".