Spoiler alert: this review reveals elements of the story.

Ukigusa (floating weeds) is a beautiful and moving film, one of only four that Ozu made in color. It is a remake of the director's 1934 silent film, A Story of Floating Weeds, also included in this release from Criterion.

Komajuro (Ganjiro Nakamura) is the master of an itinerant troupe of actors. They have arrived at a town in northern Japan to stage their kabuki drama. Komajuro is accompanied by his longtime mistress Sumiko (played by Machiko Kyo of Rashomon).

Komajuro's lover from long ago, Oyoshi (Haruko Sugimura) is proprietress of a sakeya in the town, and Komajuro clandestinely visits her and the son he fathered, Kiyoshi (Hiroshi Kawaguchi). Kiyoshi, now a young man, does not know that Komajuro is his father, but thinks he is an uncle.

Sumiko grows suspicious of Komajuro's attachment to the family of his old lover and pries out his secret. In a fit of jealous pique, she plots revenge, with the help of Kayo, a young actress in the troupe (played by Ayako Wakao). Sumiko gives the girl money and asks her to seduce Kiyoshi. When she makes advances on Kiyoshi, he is immediately smitten. The two fall in love.

When Komajuro discovers what has happened he flies into a rage, and tries to break up the relationship. Eventually his identity as Kiyoshi's father is exposed.

Meanwhile, things are not going very well for Komajuro's acting company. Attendance at their performances falls off, and one senses that this is a company that is past its prime. With insufficient ticket sales to pay the actors, it becomes clear that the troupe must be disbanded.

At the railway station as they are leaving separately, Komajuro and Sumiko reconnect. They make up and she agrees to help him as he attempts to start over.

Along with this 1959 remake, Criterion has included Ozu's original 1934 silent film A Story of Floating Weeds. The commentary is by Japanese film expert Donald Richie, who brings his profound knowledge of Ozu and Japanese culture to bear. The story is roughly the same (the names of the principals have been changed), though the 1959 version has been fleshed out to two hours compared to 86 minutes for the silent film.

A Story of Floating Weeds (the 1934 version) will interest Japanese film buffs and admirers of Ozu. Most viewers will naturally gravitate to the 1959 film, shot in color when Ozu's genius was at its peak. The earlier work carries the indelible mark of Ozu's minimalist style in its embryonic stages. In Floating Weeds it has been fine-tuned to perfection.

There are riveting performances by Ganjiro Nakamura and Machiko Kyo. Cinematography is by Kazuo Miyagawa (Ugetsu, Sansho the Bailiff, Rashomon). New subtitles by Donald Richie are an improvement over the ones on the old VHS version, where for example yuuwaku, the Japanese word for seduction, is translated as "vamp." The commentary for this version is by Roger Ebert who, despite his modest disclaimers, displays a keen insight into Ozu's work. His explanation of "pillow shots" (stills marking the transition between scenes in place of fades or dissolves) offers an important key to Ozu's cinematographic style.

Floating Weeds belongs with Ozu's masterpieces Late Spring and Tokyo Story. Donald Richie has called it "the most physically beautiful of all of Ozu's pictures." I couldn't agree more. As usual, Criterion has done a masterful job of giving this gem the setting it so richly deserves.