I'm not going to..get into it!

Actors are..as fine as they come..script..direction..all..top shelf Hollywood Machine!

What I am gonna tell you..is this:

If.."IF"..there exists..a Real "Threat"..a "Terrorist Threat" (Or Revolutionary? Or Realistic Assessment Of Corporate Authoritarianism and Real Resistance?)Then This.."Plot"..is absolutely legitimate as a potential "Delivery Mechanism"..its.."Expression"!

Ask yourself..those of you who Have..Perhaps..Acknowledged to Yourselves: "I Realize I'm Complicit In Everything This Corporate Government..'Does'..And I No Longer Wish To Participate..In Fact..I Do Believe I Shall Seek To..Undermine..Their Efforts In The Destruction Of My Own Liberty..Hmm..Now What?"

(Yes..some of us DO..Ask Ourselves These Questions..)

Well?

"How"..Would you go about this?

If Your At All Concerned with the "Longevity" of your Battle..you'll seek to avoid not only "Capture"..but even the chance that you are a "Suspect"..even perhaps the chance that what you've "Done"..will be noticed at all..for.."What It Really Is". Perhaps "Credit" is less important to..any Real "Resistance" Than say..the Heavy Handed..(Almost Totalitarian At This Point)..Economy Destroying..Physically/Psychologically/Spiritually Exhausting.."Reaction" Imposed by any "Government" In "Response"?

Perhaps.."Encouraging" said "Government" to in fact become increasingly brutal and intrusive..while simultaneously chasing innocent citizens..and undermining the "Liberties" They Claim to be "Protecting"..is more.."Effective"..then simply "Destroying Something..Then Admitting To It And Becoming the Newest Celebrity Bogey Man"? Eh What?

Sadly..for Americans..the "Reality" of "Terrorism"..is..so Willingly Ignored..that Most seek out.."Ways"..in which to facilitate Denial and Rationalization. The Propagandists and Purveyors of Fear and "F.E.A.R." (False Evidence Appears Real)..have an Easy Time..Incredibly..Surrealistically Easy Time..Providing the "Enemy Du Jour" instead of say..gosh..examining the realities.

Thus..what this Story..Presents..is a Look at a kind of "Revolutionaries SERE" (Survival-Evasion-Resistance-Escape). Or the Ability to utilize the Psychological "Lay of the Land"..the Willingness..of the Public and Various "Agencies" to..In Fact.."WANT TO SEE WHATS NOT THERE"..and thus Avoid Detection..while REMAINING an Effective Revolutionary Action. Instead of Being "Captured".."Promote" the Capture of an Innocent Citizen..etc..

This is a Story about "Asymmetrical RESISTANCE".

I could go on..but why bother?

Those of You "Angry" at what I'm saying..Should..Absolutely..Watch this Movie. Its About.."You"!

Perhaps before you "Report" me..you should ask yourself.."What If The Name On This Review Doesn't Belong To The Individual Who's Written This?"

Shazam! You just "Looked In The Wrong Direction!" Focusing all that Indignation on an Innocent Citizen! Wow! That..was..Easy!

People? This is a Story about YOUR Preconceived FEARS..Prejudices..and the EASE with which they CAN..and ARE..Manipulated EVERY..SINGLE..DAY!

Have a Nice Day!

(P.s If Your Still All Upset..read My Other Reviews..I think I did one for "A Bugs Life" and..perhaps a Patrick Swayze Movie..Relax..its just a Review..right?)