Note: I created another review but I didn't like it. So I created this new review to express my opinion more clearly.

Post-WW2 Italy, 1947. Antonio has finally found a job. It requires putting up posters. But he needs a bike to do it. After selling his bedsheets to get his bicycle out of the pawnshop, he starts his job. At his first day at work, his bicycle is stolen. Antonio is crushed. He has a wife, a baby, and a son less than 10 yrs old to support. The only thing he can do is find his bike. So he and his young son Bruno go in search of the bicycle.

 Note: for a brief moment, I wondered why Ricci didn't borrow money for a new bike from friends or family. A bike costs 6,000 lira. His job has him making 12,000 lira a month. He was good for the money. Still, in movies, as in real life, people hardly ever take the most logical way. That's what makes movies and life so interesting. I guess watching this movie, it depends on the perspective you watch. In Africa, India, and China, for example, people live in worse conditions. I'm sure they would look at this movie and this post-WW2 Italy is a much preferable place to live; especially considering in Africa, China, and India, many people don't have access to electricity, clean water, and unemployment rates are as high as 80% or more. I guess it depends on the perspective a viewer has when watching this film.

A few weeks after watching this film, my depression began to worsen. I was working in a box-making factory from 11pm to 7am Mon-Fri and I hated it. The job was a dead end. My love life was a dead end. My friends were drifting away and I had debts up to my eyeballs. My mother tried to lift me up but I didn't pay any attention to her. A little over a year after seeing the Bicycle Thieves for the first time I saw Nights of Cabiria. That film is about a naïve prostitute who never gives up hope that her true love will come one day and bring her happiness. Throughout the movie she is ridiculed, ignored by potential lovers, and treated harshly. Still, she never gives up hope and goes on smiling in face of her troubles. After watching this movie, my depression began to lessen noticeably and I remembered my mother's words, "If no one loves you. Then you must love yourself. If you do not have the patience to love yourself then why should you expect others to have the patience to love you?"

I liked Nights of Cabiria for its emotionally uplifting tone. The main character has admirable strength and fortitude. She's a prostitute, in the lowest class of society, yet she not only believes she deserves a better life, she actively seeks one. One can only wish her good luck and thank her for her inspiring attitude. After Nights of Cabiria, I don't really care for the Bicycle Thieves. It was too dreary for my taste. Unfortunately, whenever people say this, the intellectuals are quick to pounce on your opinion, "This movie is meant to make you think. If you want a lot of explosions then watch a typical Hollywood movie with the predictable happy ending."

The assessment that Hollywood movies always have a predictable happy ending is preposterous. Just look at these films: Psycho; Citizen Kane; Dirty Harry; The Hustler; The Wild Bunch; The Godfather Trilogy; The Postman Always Rings Twice; Carrie; Von Ryan's Express; Night if the Living Dead; Seven; Goodfellas; From Here to Eternity; The Killing; Usual Suspects; Rocky; Saturday Night Fever; The Shining; Planet of the Apes; Sweet Smell of Success; The Defiant Ones; Emperor of the North; The Swimmer; 21 Grams; etc.
I just named 2 dozen Hollywood movies without predictable happy endings. I could name dozens more and most film buffs could too. Yet whenever a European movie gets the label of being dull, people are quick to contrast it with mainstream Hollywood and claim Hollywood is nonsensical and predictable. I never see people use this argument when comparing movies in other countries; it's always with European movies. Honestly, the movies coming from European countries are the bleakest, most depressing, dullest, and nihilistic stuff I've ever seen. I tend to see movies from all over the world too.

Detractors of the Bicycle Thieves will label it dull and depressing. The lovers of the film will say it is intellectually stimulating. However, sometimes a dull movie is just a dull movie. Hollywood movies like Sweet Smell of Success and the Hustler didn't have explosions and the typical Hollywood happy ending. Yet I found those movies intellectually stimulating as well as emotionally uplifting. Can intellectuals stop saying things like, "if you don't like intellectually stimulating movies then you should watch movies with mindless explosions like Transformers"? That kind of elitist comment turns people off more. Can't someone like Transformers and an intellectual movie like Citizen Kane?

All in all, I don't recommend this movie. I recommend Nights of Cabiria instead. After watching Cabiria, I watched the Bicycle Thieves again. I couldn't stop shouting at the screen, "Come on, Ricci. Be a man. Your wife and son have more hope than you do. You're supposed to be the father. Be strong and let everyone know things could be all right." I couldn't believe it. I was actually shouting while watching this dreary movie. Cabiria has a protagonist that has unbreakable strength. It isn't macho, chest-beating bravado. It is quiet dignity that smiles bravely in the face of emotionally trying obstacles. It is an intellectually, emotionally stimulating movie that had a great impact on my life. I hope you'll pick that up instead and enjoy it.