I am a bit tickled by the previous reviewer's vehemence, which has the word "symptom" written all over it.  It is amazing how a certain overzealous puritanism (or in this case, a certain high-brow, self-satisfied snottiness) can generate its own kind of excess... It is funny when such know-it-all self-righteousness hastily condemns a work of art, and yet betrays its own blindness by showing how little it has understood what it condemns.

_In the realm of the senses_ is a study in "beautiful" excess... But it must be understood that this kind of "beauty" is only accessible to a certain poetic sensitivity that is able to perceive it in places where souls with a different kind of sensitivity can only see ugliness or worse, mere redundancy and futility ("1.5 hours of pointless inanity," as the previous reviewer puts it).  And yes it depicts on the surface an eroticism that is brutal, excessive, increasingly degenerative, and ultimately all consuming, but like any piece of meaningful art, it resonates beyond itself to invoke a variety of supplementary meanings and insights into human behavior that can only bring riches and rewards to the patient, discerning viewer. More importantly, the film is not out to glorify the pattern of excess it depicts since it places the eroticism on a path of increasing depravity that inexorably leads to self-destruction.  In that sense, the film is implacably moral!  But let's leave that aside...

An incapacity to see beyond the mentioned surface eroticism is in itself nothing incriminating... Evidently, people are entitled to their tastes, and their opinions, and these are bound to show differences...  There are people who, due to their constitutions and tastes, will not last through 10 minutes of the kind of graphic eroticism that is depicted here in all its glory, and that is perfectly understandable since such people cannot help themselves.  But why condemn so vehemently, and with such a despotic and dismissive sense of self-righteousness, a work of art that one obviously understands so little???