In a nutshell: Excellent musical score, good special effects, so-so acting, horrible sceenplay.  Big budget flick that fails to live up to the hype.

Here's why.  The opening 40 minutes were much like Independence Day; A fast-paced, exciting catastrophy unfolds, this time in the form of super-storms that envelope the northern hemisphere in an ice age.  Lots of good CGI work makes it look impressive on the screen.  It looks like the world's in big trouble again... and then... the story goes to hell in a handbasket, just like Independence Day.  Thankfully, Director Roland Emmerich keeps the Will Smith humor out of this one.  But the story has little substance.  Here's a few of the many flaws I noticed (I left the scientific ones out):

1. Dennis Quaid's character walks(!!!) to New York in search of his son, in the freeze that's supposed to kill everyone who gets caught in it, losing one of his friends in the process.  And, it turns out, his son was just fine because he took his father's advice NOT to go outside.

2. Helicopters flying around tornados?  Just ask a pilot.

3. Scottish research station filled with Englishmen?  Where's William Wallace when we need him?

4. Dizzy-pretty girl tries to rescue a purse that ain't even her's, with a 100ft tsunami coming down the pipe?

5. The freighter sailing down Manhattan... a good laugh, though.

6. You just gotta love that tent Quaid's character stays in.  Looks like a Wal Mart special.

7. Wolves that can scale the side of a freighter?  Unrealistic looking, too.

8. The President simply dies off in the movie.  What happened?  Did a 200ft chunk of ice crush his motorcade or did he slip and fall like Atkins did?

9. Mexico closes off the border!  Muevete!  The Gringos are coming!  We need bigger gates!

10. When it's cold out, you usually can see your breath.  They could have at least added it with CGI.

OK, enough of the criticism.  The best scene; Watching the reporter get wiped out by the billboard!

I strongly recommend that if you must see this movie, rent it first.  I watched my brother's copy, so he's out the $15.  It's not one that'll be in my collection any time soon.