When I first rented this movie, I was pretty excited.  Despite the fact that I had read a few not so great reviews about this movie when it was in theatres, I was eager to see the film for myself.

 The movie starts with the main character Michelle on death row receiving a visit from Bishop T.D. Jakes.  Michelle Jordan is a tortured soul of a woman who was molested as a child by her mother's boyfriend.  She then takes the wrong path and becomes a drug-addicted stripper before finally ending up in prison.  The first big flaw with this movie is that the audience doesn't know anything about Michelle's middle or high school years, which I believe are essential for a more thorough explanation of her going down the wrong path in life.  The truth is that there are people in this world who have recovered from being sexually abused and who are living productive lives.  We cannot simply assume that Michelle did not develop other problems along the way and that she chose to ruin her life.  Through some narratives and very brief flashbacks, the audience can only assume that she was probably rebellious, hung around the wrong kids and was probably promiscuous.  Besides the obvious abuse, all that is known is the fact that her mother refused to believe her daughter was molested because of her fear of being alone.

 Michelle finally gets out of prison on parole and begins to try and straighten her life out.  Of course, her past rears its ugly head through former associations that believe she is still the same self-destructive woman she was before going to prison.  However, she manages to remain strong.  Bishop T.D. Jakes's church is having a revival that Michelle is attending in order to spark some healing in her life.  Unfortunately, the tarnished relationship between her and her mother ultimately cannot be healed.  Then on the final night of the revival, she carries the bloodstained dress she wore as a little girl when she was attacked by Reggie, her mother's boyfriend.  She lays down the dress at the altar, symbolizing healing from her past, but she comes face to face with Reggie.  He is facing is own demons and pleads for forgiveness when he sees her.  Not understanding how God can forgive him, she guns him down up at the altar.  This scene was among the most powerful of the movie.

 The plot of the story was very believable and real.  I applaud the fact that this film touched on some very serious issues and did not fall into the "feel-good" Christian category.  Fortunately, many women will be able to relate to the character of Michelle Jordan.  This movie had the potential to be great.  However, I must admit that it felt like maybe this play was rushed to the screen.  The cast was great, but with some more effort in the writing of the plot, this could have been a landmark film.  But the high point was Kimberly Elise.  She is one of the most talented actresses in Hollywood who has nothing but great things ahead for her.  She did an excellent job in portraying Michelle Jordan and Loretta Devine was admirable in her role as the mother.  The other actors in the film also did a great job.  T.D. Jakes plays himself in the movie and seemed to be a lot more effective in his scenes in the prison cell with Michelle.  But the scene in the crack house with the addicts was quite comical.  Each person is puffing away on a crack pipe, but then start to criticize each other's lives. Not to mention, the drug dealer tells everyone to be quiet so he can hear T.D. Jakes who is on television that they are all watching. The dealer then tries to shoot Reggie(He was one of the addicts) because he owed money. Now, I'm not trying to be cynical, but this scene was almost totally unbelievable.

I must now go back to the subject of the narratives.  They were interesting at times, however, I also believe that they had a negative impact on the movie.  It was almost as if they were used to take up more time in the movie and fill in holes in the plot.  That time could have been used incorporating additional scenes about Michelle and her mother's background.  Not to mention, there is a useless light romance that takes place with an old high school classmate.  The relationship pretty much goes nowhere and ends abruptly because of Michelle going back to prison for killing her attacker.  A disclaimer for this situation is that the movie takes place over one weekend.  It's just that the relationship didn't add anything to the movie.

 The movie's ending left the audience wondering.  It's left to us to decide or figure out what happened to Michelle.  Did she get a new trial?  Or was she executed and went on to eternal glory?  Because her house she was building had a door and windows, we can maybe assume that she was freed.  But was she freed in the natural to continue living and healing, or freed from her tormented life to live the heavenly one?  Who knows?  In the future, I hope to see more movies like this one. I just hope that they can get more of a backing from Hollywood so that budget and time constraints don't take away from the substance.