I watched this film tonight.  At least I think it was tonight.  But instead maybe I had a dream I watched the film, but won't actually watch it until Wednesday night.  In any case, blame it on the roses, blame it on the wind but I'm not sure I completely followed what all was going on.  Spoilers ahoy.  Read on if you've already seen the movie.

As far as I can gather, there seem to have been multiple possible histories competing with one another for actuality.  In one possible history, Sandra Bullock is estranged from her husband and they have a crumbling loveless marriage, though he does wind up falling all over himself to give her some head.

In another possible history, which seems not actually to have occurred, a sinister psychiatrist is drugging Bullock with... Lithium?  Did the screenwriter research this at all?  Lithium is not an antipsychotic, nor is it very widely prescribed for people whose heads are coming apart so bad they don't know whether they're Hall or Oates.  But Lithium, nevertheless, is most sinisterly prescribed.  I think the same shrink may have sinisterly suggested magnesium supplements as well, in a vaguely suspicious barely concealed French-Canadian accent no less.  Ah well.  But it was not to be, apparently.  Nor was it quite to be that Bullock gets popped into the loony bin for slicing her daughter's face up.

However the film-makers do at least supply a blooper reel featuring an assortment of mystics culled from the north of Britain ("I sez to me Harry, I sez, Don't let's tonight... it gives me a rum go.  An' that seam night the pub caeved in on isself, teakin' the souls of thirty football supporters down wi' er."; "Yar... I seen 'im: the Loch Ness Monster, sure as'm standin' 'ere!"; "I seen the trein go off the rails, real bloody-like, joos like it duz in me bleedin' paintin's.")

But getting back to the movie, in the end, it does seem to have seemingly come to pass that hubby gets a bionic haircut from a jack-knifing gasoline truck... though one can't be fully sure this really happened.  After all, the movie in its entirety could have been a bad dream that the viewer... I mean Bullock, yes, Bullock, had and was now in the process of being disabused of as she walks out of the theater... I mean prepares to sell the house her husband bought with that raise he got for being promoted at whatever company he worked for selling whatever it was he sold.  It does indeed seem that the house her husband bought for her didn't bring them much happiness, and the poignancy of the movie resides in this subtext of family life gone awry and no possibility of touching those we hold dear.