First of all -- I like this movie. It is a PG rated chick-flick. So, if you don't like romantic comedies that are cheesy and more 'cute' than dramatic, I definitely doubt you will want to watch The Prince and Me. I do believe that if the rating was raised to PG-13, along with added drama with more depth, and a more complicated story line - the movie could have been improved from just being a teen flick. Julia Stiles and Luke Mably carry the plot line well, though, once again I think that they could have handled a more serious outlook on the same story. The more minor actors were chosen very well, especially the roles of Soren, Queen Rosalind, and Princess Arabella.

I have seen the sequels to The Prince and Me, and I must say, that the sequels are nowhere near as good as the original. As is almost always the case. Even the second film is nothing in comparison, especially because of the change of cast. Even if they couldn't help losing most of the cast, I think that it was a mistake to do a sequel without Julia Stiles - but with Luke Mably. Because throughout the film, it almost seems as though Edvard ended up with someone else besides Paige, because of the change of actresses. At least in the third and fourth installments both main leads are different, so one can picture them as a whole different version of Edvard and Paige.

So, watch The Prince and Me if you like the type of movie that it is described as; but unless you are quite patient and quite curious, avoid the sequels. Just imagine the way the story would have continued with the original cast and improved plot lines. I mean really, why write a sequel about a lost elephant? And can you really imagine Julia Stiles (Paige) acting the way that Kam Heskin (Paige 2) does in the sequels? No, not really. Can you picture Luke Mably (Edvard) acting the way that Chris Geere (Edvard 2) does in the sequels? No.

The story of a Crown Prince falling in love and becoming the King that he should be because of that love. And so there is a happy ending? If you're watching this movie you probably want to see a happy ending, right?