I recommend this movie. I got it on a lark because Jennifer Garner is in it and she's beautiful. After getting it, I didn't watch it for a while until I looked at it and I saw Timothy Olyphant is in it and he is a good actor.

Its a movie about relationships -- most guys will run for the hills -- and the most important things are the interactions and how each individual deals with situations and each other. There is solid acting, perhaps in a less dramtic way than you may have seen these actors before. Yes, its in a nice idealized setting and oh heavens, we are not exposed to crime, traffic and urban blight. So what? None of that is central to the story and would take away from the time given us to know our characters. It won't make you love a character to see them fall to road rage nor to see them a victim of violent crime. Maybe if this were about those societal problems, but it is not. So reviewers that dinged the movie for that get real.

Its not a movie for everybody. It may have elements of fishing in it but it isn't "A River Runs Through It," which for me is blessing, and that movie appeals to an even smaller audience. Its a relationship story about a bunch of people dealing with grief over the unexpected death of a friend for many, a son to one and a lover to another (or more as we find out). It also how people get over it and learn to see others whom we thought we knew and reevaluate what we come to know good or bad). Its about learning to see the good in people who are right in front of us and hold on to that no matter what others think, for life is too short.

If you expect lots of drama for some reason, there really isn't but life isn't always about dramatic extremes (if you need those, they have diagnoses for you, but its o.k.). Life is often subtle, full of small conflicts and disappointments and small happinesses, and certainly mistakes. The fact that we have conflicts and disappointments is not the point but how how we deal with them without getting bitter or losing ourselves, that we learn good lessons and still try to find happiness and good in people and forgive the bad, including in ourselves. Others are often not who we expect and nor should we always try to be what others expect from us if it would keep us from finding our happiness and joy. Also appropriate here is the belief "when one door closes, another one opens." Its anice little positive movie in the end.

Its suitable for adult therapy groups where clients have mild-moderate emotional/social difficulties to see people dealing with emotional content in a positive way and developing and maintaining relationships. It does not overly idealize relationships but shows how they have ups and downs, that people are not always what they seem (bad AND good), that perceived betrayals can be reconciled with love and understanding.

There is sexual content within context but not overly gratuitous and without actual nudity. This is a physical struggle between two friends that is more funny than actually violent (and no one is actually hurt). The most violence is a small child jumping up on down (on what we assume is a flapping fish, but the fish after initial shot of flapping is off camera), and is shown to be an abnormal behavior. The film has elements of fishing, so guess what? If fish are pets for you and you cringe at the thought of fish sticks, stay away or just close your eyes. There is argument against catch and release fishing as being cruel, so its not that bad and again the whole film is not really objectional on any account as most sex, drugs etc. fairly low-key and/or off screen. Only people with extreme issues are likely to have problems.  There is almost use of marijuana in one scene for stress relief/relaxation but the character is reproved and doesn't actually use; there is use of alcohol as a stress relief in several other scenes which could trigger people in early recovery for substance abuse issues.There are very normal behaviors that can trigger reactions for other things too if we want to cover every angle and extreme. People with extreme religious beliefs will disapprove of premarital sex and mild casual alcohol/caffeine/marijuana use. There is an attempted suicide/overdose by prescription sleep meds that is not treated in an alarming manner, but fairly matter of fact and just not the best stress-relief response. The attempter is treated with love and support by most but not as being very serious by some. The character is fairly comedic relief so this is not a totally unfair assessment.

Talking over these various points to ensure that events portrayed are not taken out of context, alternative coping methods are discussed, etc. and to reassure that there is a wide variety of coping behaviors and that use of mood-altering substances among unaddicted for short periods are not always "evil" or lead to self-destruction, e.g. normative behavior vs destructive behavior, and to reduce rigid expectations of others and self.