Just to be clear: Haruhi is a 5 star anime, arguably one of the best ever made. This is a review of this particular DVD release, whose shortcomings are irredeemable.

First of all, the voice acting. It's good!... is what I thought initially. The first couple of episodes are narrated almost exclusively by the character Kyon, whose English voice actor is surprisingly competent at capturing the spirit of the anime. Everything breaks down, however, when Haruhi herself starts talking. I don't know if she was miscast, if she didn't understand her character, or if she just plain didn't care, but it's painful to hear. Every time she opens her mouth, what comes out is a barrage of misplaced emphasis and confusing emotion. The other characters fill in the range, from ok (Mikuru sounds more or less like she should) to not so great (Nagato, who fortunately doesn't have many lines). Now, none of this would really matter if it weren't for the fact that...

Second of all, the subtitles. You've got your par-for-the-course shoddy commercial translation, with plenty of questionable decisions made and liberties taken. But if that was all it was, that would be passable. Then comes the size. For some inexplicable reason, Bandai decided to render the subtitles in a massive, bold, garishly yellow font. The subtitles eat up about a quarter of the screen, and that's hardly an exaggeration. It's as if someone decided that instead of normal subtitles, they should have captions for the vision impaired. Since DVDs store subtitles as image overlays, no DVD player will have an option to shrink down the font. So, you can watch the upper 75% of Haruhi. Or at least you could, if it weren't for...

Third of all, and most egregiously, the series on disk is entirely out of order. They shuffled things around, so that the season finale now happens in the middle of disk 2 out of 4. Haruhi has an appropriate anachronological watch order, one that properly unravels the plot in a riveting fashion. The episodes have instead been resorted to a chronological order (except it isn't even that, since they left what should have been episode 11 chronologically at episode 1), so that instead of a masterful and revolutionary storytelling style, you get a disjointed and poorly flowing set of episodes. It's as if someone made you watch "Back to the Future 3" before the original, since the 1800s are chronologically before the 1980s. If you want to watch it in the proper order, I hope you don't mind interrupting the autoplay and swapping out the disk every other episode... if you can even figure out how, since the episodes have been helpfully renumbered, and the "next episode" spots accordingly messed with. Bandai isn't the only one at fault for this last point, since Haruhi's Japanese publishers also committed this sin, but they really ought to have known better.

Together, these three points manage to bring down what was once a brilliant masterpiece to below a threshold of even watchable. This collection will alienate any previous fans, and all but the most dedicated prospective viewer will be put off before they finish it. This release is a trainwreck that isn't recommendable at any price. If you are an American anime lover, the best thing you can do at this point is buy the set, place it, unwrapped, on your shelf, and then go download a fansub so you can actually enjoy your anime.