This is of course the best film ever made. I own the DVD, but can't understand the shortage of extras. The laserdisc format has plenty of extras. For example it has the tralior and T.V. spots. Behind the scenes,  the Making of Pulp, the Charlie Rose interview with QT, and four deleted  scenes hosted by QT. Why couldn't we get those with the DVD format.  Hopefully in the near future, a re-release of the DVD will include these  goodies and maybe perhaps a Tarantino-Bender commentary track and a  director's cut of the complete film. The current DVD provides average  picture and sound. It is the best movie ever made and gets better each time  you watch it. You will also find out new things every time you view it. For  instance, the gun on Butch's counter didn't belong to Vincent, it belonged  to Wallace. Remember, Jules had already quit. Butch doesn't have any  intention in throwing the fight until Vincent picks a fight with him. It's  true, go back and watch how Butch acts while talking with Wallace and then  how mad he gets when Vincent starts with him.  Plus Fabeine is pregnant in  the movie, listen very closely to what she says. The movie also has a comic  side to it. I think it's funny how Vincent basically caused everything in  the movie. Just think, Vincent caused Mia's overdose by purchasing heroine  from Lance, in the first chapter. In the second chapter, "The Gold  Watch," Vincent picks a fight with Butch. Then Butch throws the boxing  match. Then in "The Bonnie Situation," Vincent tells Jules,  "Do you feel like having breakfast?" Then they go to the diner,  and you know what happens. Vincent is the films main character, and without  him there wouldn't have been a movie because he started all the problems.  Ask yourself these questions while viewing this. Why DON'T Vincent and  Jules die in the apartment? Why DO Vincent and Marvin die after  "Devine Intervention?" Why does Jules let Ringo LIVE? Why does  Butch go back to SAVE Wallace's life? What is in the BRIEFCASE? Tarantino  wasn't lazy when writing and directing this film. The more you watch it,  the more likely you'll have the answers to these questions and more. You  need to watch it more than two times to understand it. If you didn't like  it the first time, give it another try. This movie is NOT bad, overrated,  boring or too long like some people say. The actors are great and perfect  for thier roles. Any real movie fan will agree with me. People ask me what  the movie is about and its difficult to say. It's about a lot of things  like honor, pride, luck, faith and redemption.This is my favorite and the  greatest movie ever made!