Big Trouble in Little China has been my favorite movie ever since I was a kid(I'm now 25). I've watched it hundreds of times on VHS, DVD, and now Blu-Ray, and I can say without a doubt that the transfer onto Blu-Ray is perfect! The colors are vivid, and I didn't notice any drop in quality throughout the entire viewing.

I actually bought an HDTV and a Blu-Ray player just because this movie came out on Blu-Ray. Lets just say that my $1,500 investment was worth it. There isn't any change to the movie, which some were reporting, but the special features give you a different take on how the movie could have gone.

Extended Ending: Jack sees the Lords of Death driving by as they're leaving the Wing Kong Exchange, and decides to follow them. They park on a pier and are drinking beer when Jack decides to plow into them, knocking them into the water. It's a great scene, but I'm glad they didn't put it in the movie. The other changes are them showing the Chinese Wild Man getting in the back of the truck and Egg Shen saying something to Jack as he leaves. Both are interesting but unnecessary.

Deleted Scenes: This is where it really gets interesting. There are scenes where Kurt Russell is hamming it up even more than usual. He has a great line "Too much dried Seahorse", in one. He also has an extended Henry Swanson scene that is hilarious. Kim Cattrall must thank the editor and John Carpenter, because her deleted scenes were terrible. Her acting is atrocious, and I'm thankful they didn't leave them in. They're still fun to watch, though. All in all, there are about 15 deleted scenes, including the last one which contains about 7 or 8 shorter ones. They are worth the purchase alone. It gives you an idea of how fine of a line they tread in the parody vs. reality department. If half of the deleted scenes would have made the final cut, the movie would have been a lot campier and goofier than it already is. Even though I loved most of the deleted scenes, I'm glad they didn't go that route.

Overall, this DVD is amazing. It isn't as expansive as the 2 Disc Collector's Edition, but it is well worth picking up. The movie looks perfect, the deleted scenes and new ending are interesting, and the featurette is great too. I haven't watched the movie with the commentary yet, but I'm sure that is good too.