This film was recommended to me, and it took me a while to get to a store where I could rent it for the first time. Then shortly following the rental I felt I needed to buy it and watch it a hundred more times. I sat at my computer paying close attention to even the tiniest details. This film is all about precision (See the special features- 300 day documentary about the making).

First, this film is about two orphan boys living in a crumbling town called "Treasure Town." The focus is all about perspective and how one views the world. While Kuro (Black) has a very dark possessive view of his home town, one that he thinks should never be changed, while Shiro (White) has an imagination and an eye for how the world really should be.

The two are endlessly dogged by the Yakuza who want want to change the town into an amusement park (among other things) and make a profit. Kuro fights to preserve "My Town" and keep it a place that he can always be the top of and see everything from. Like many other people he wants to keep a sense of security. The world turns upside down with its inner workings and everything in the real town seems so superficial that world and dreams of Shiro seem the most logical option for surviving.

The precise colors, time taken for each shot is clearly expressed, nothing in this film is ever missed, all the work is clear cut and every single scene has its meaning.

Kuro and Shiro share a lonely life living in broken down car and living off stolen money and goods. Although Kuro lives to care for his friend, he has his reservations about how care free Shiro is and that Shiro doesn't entirely like the way the town is developing. The conflicting feelings and various lenses that they see this world from is amazing.

I sat back after seeing this and thought it was an intense but completely necessary violent movie about two kids who just don't want their childhood world to be shattered by the adults. So many themes, ideas, and undertones play into this film that it's open to all viewers.

The time, effort, and thought put into this 111 minute film is clear. The sync of the musical score by Plaid and incredible ending sound by Asian Kung Fu Generation and the bizzare world by Mr. Arias makes me want to go be a director, he did an amazing adaptation of "Black and White" and transformed it into something else entirely with more graphic images and characters that you don't want to ever forget.

If you liked Akira, Steamboy, or like strange, abstract, but intricately woven films, this is the top of the list, and is good for a group of friends or personal viewing. This deserves a 10 out of 5!