This movie is the best WWII movie out there. It was released in 1963 and starred Steve Mcqueen, James Garner, and Richard Attenborough. Steve McQueen plays, Hilts "the cooler king", James Garner plays Hendley "the scrounger", and Richard Attenborough plays Bartlett "big x".

This is the plot, in 1943 the Nazis built the prison camp Stalag Luft III. The luftwaffe kept American, English, and other pilots that were caught behind enemy lines due to crashing or other causes. But the bad thing the Nazis did was that they poured hundreds of prisoners-of-war and formed the finest escape team in history. In the movie when the Bartlett and the other prisoners arrive the plan gets started. Bartlett wants to confuse the Third Reich by having 250 prisoners escape from the camp and make hundreds of Nazi soldiers have men to look for them. This would make it difficult for the enemy to defend itself on the frontlines. Bartlett holds a camp meeting one night. He tells the men his idea. His idea is to dig three tunnels codenamed Tom, Dick, and Harry. The reason for three would be if the Germans found one they could move into the other. After the plan was told, he assigned all the men certain jobs to make the escape a success. During a 4th of July party, one of the "Krauts" discover Tom, one of the tunnels. They then close down Dick and focus on Harry. Then a little later the tunnel is ready to be used. Then one night all 250 men arrive to the tunnel entrance and escape. The bad news is only 76 made it out. The reason 76 is because when a German heard noises from the field, right by the prison camp, he checked and didn't discover the tunnel. But one inpatient prisoner did not what until the coast was clear. He came out of the hole and was caught, making the 174 remaining prisoners stuck in the camp unable to escape.

Most of the escaping men are caught, there are only 3 men out of the 76 that successfully escaped to freedom. 50 prisoners, including Bartlett, were murdered by the Gestapo. Hendley's blind friend Blythe, played by Donald Pleasence, is killed by a German officer after there plane crashes. The rest of the prisoners were returned to Stalag Luft III. Then Hilts is returned to the cooler, then the credits are shown ending the movie.

The movie was a big success. It was based on an actual true story. Everyone loved Steve McQueen's motorcycle scene during the last part of the movie. There is even a scene where McQueen plays a german on a motorcycle chasing Hilts. Of course in the true story this scene didn't happen. The movie had a great director, John Sturges, and an excellent cast, including James Coburn, Charles Bronson, and more. The special features are very nice. There are a couple of documentaries and a theatrical trailer and many more things that make the Great Escape of the best WWII films in movie history.