TNA Wrestling is very smart on how it's playing it's roster.  They aren't rushing into throwing a wrestler they feel should be a superstar down your throat.  They are taking their time...VERY SMART! They have nothing but time and they use their roster well.  Examples: Alex Shelly, great wrestler, but the angle with Kevin Nash and now you have a charater.  Now that they know they have a character...the T-shirt just came out on the TNA website. Another example, "The Alpha Male" Monty Brown...main event wrestler (TNA created) but just not ready for the ultimate push as World Champion.  But TNA is taking their time...and Monty will be World Champion one day!  And then you have Samoa Joe.  ROH Wrestling created, great wrestler and established! Now with the national exposure of TNA Wrestling, Samoa Joe is hall of fame superstar in the making.

This DVD chronicles Joe's start in TNA to very recent matches. If you never caught Joe in ROH Wrestling now's your chance to get acquinted.  Too small to be a heavyweight but too big to be stricly an X Division wrestler.  Samoa Joe is a veteran and very professional entertainer.  He defenitely carried a recent match between him & Sting versus Jeff Jarrett & Scott Steiner.  I believe that these other three legendary wrestlers had to step it up to keep with the active Samoan.

The matches on this DVD are his Pay-Per-View matches from Slammiversary and other PPVs. With perks like Joe vs. The Amazing Red from Spike TV's TNA Impact show. I'm so glad they put this match on this DVD. I seen Impact results from the TNA website and seen the match took place and wanted to see it very badly. And with me being deployed to Iraq was unable to watch on Spike TV.  But I bought the DVD and bam there it was! Very Satisfied!

Great DVD! Great Matches! and Samoe Joe is a Great Wrestler! Awesome DVD...be sure to purchase all the TNA Wrestling DVD releases plus their line of house shows (not shown on television) from the highspots.com website.  Samoa Joe vs. Christian Cage has already taken place at a TNA house show. Great Match!

Keep it up TNA Wrestling and I'm looking forward to tuning in every Thursday on Spike TV when I return home.