I wasn't really sure of what to expect when I first started watching "The Missing" but I'm glad I rented it as it's not really worth buying. While good, this is one of those films that you only need to watch once. 
Tommy Lee Jones is always an interesting actor to behold onscreen and Cate Blanchett is one of my favorite actresses. I trust in her judgment of picking excellent roles and this is no exception. She does a convincing job at playing Maggie: a Christian "healer" who aids the ill in the wilderness of rural New Mexico. She lives a humble life until all is shattered when the man she loves and her two daughters fail to return from a cattle drive. Maggie goes looking for them and finds Brake dead and a frightened Dot (the youngest) who comes out of her hiding place, crying about someone having taken Lily. 
The movie is pretty much based upon finding her. Savage Indians who are kidnapping innocent young girls to sell at the market abducted her and since the police or the army aren't willing to do much, the mother is determined to find Lily herself so she reluctantly agrees to let her estranged father, who's suddenly returned after so many years of wrongful doings, help in her quest. She is forced to put aside all the disdainful feelings directed towards the hurt he's caused her in the past for she knows she needs his assistance in order to return Lily home, and alive. 
The storyline is a little weak and tends to be predictable at times but the performances were all well done and I especially enjoyed Dot, who truly stole the spotlight, insisting that she doesn't get left behind and that she goes with them to find her sister. The villain is an evil witch (or brujo) who possesses many demonic powers but I'm a little baffled as to why the previews and plot descriptions lead you to believe that he's a shape-shifter? Nowhere in this movie does he take another form. He is, however, scum of the earth and you can't hold back from wanting him to pay for all the wicked, cowardly things he's done.
"The Missing" has its flaws and it probably could have been a much more suspenseful thriller but it has many great moments and the cinematography and music by composer James Horner are absolutely gorgeous.