Russel Mulcahy's 2001 film based on the true story involving Major Whittlesey's brave defense of a key position in the middle of German lines in 1918.  An excellent film that is quite graphic for a TV film and very accurate.

Although less people (especially civilians) were killed in WWI than WWII, it was more brutal and devastating on the battlefield than WWII for several reasons.  Unlike the mobile mechanized tactics of WWII, the Western Front was a static arrangement of complex trenches and bunkers covering over 500 miles between the English Channel and Switzerland.  Both strategic and tactical maneuvers were limited to full frontal infantry assaults against a heavily entrenched enemy creating nothing more than meat grinders for the attacking soldiers.  By the war's end, about 75% of the male population ages 17-35 in Germany and France was either dead or permanently disabled by the war. Of those who were injured, many were amputees, horribly maimed/disfigured, or suffering permanent pulmonary/neurological damage from exposure to gas. The suicide rate amongst veterans was also high after the war.  Gas was used freely by both sides and modern medicine was relatively a new discipline: the understanding of shock, trauma, and infections was limited; there was no penecilin, no blood transfusions, and no plasma.  Infections were treated mainly with alcohol and ether.

The story, as the main reviewer says, is quite simple.  Whittier's batallion is ordered to take a hill in the middle of the German line and hold it until his flanks can catch up to him; he is ordered to stand until further orders and not retreat.  Unfortunately for Whittier's batallion, his flanks never caught up to him and they find themselves completely surrounded and low on provisions.  Whittier, very much in the style of Chamberlain at Gettysburgh remains defiant and is able to repel several German assaults over several days.  Despite losing over half his regiment, Whittier survived and later received the Congressional Medal of Honor along with a few of his men for his outstanding bravery.

This is a great film and one of the few war films to cover WWI.  The acting is good and the direction is superb.  The film is very accurate as to all of the details of the period and also quite graphic for a TV film.  The film also has a documentary which recites various letters sent by/to the doughboys, nurses, and others who took part in the war.  It's a great deal!