Along with the perceived failure of the Star Trek: Enterprise television series, Star Trek: Nemesis was widely blamed for the apparent "end" of Star Trek as a franchise when it was released in 2002 to subpar box office sales and mediocre reviews.  However, it is a curious movie in many respects, and much better than its reputation would suggest.

First, a quick trivia question, the answer to which may surprise you.  The planet Earth is threatened by a menacing Romulan battleship that is stronger than the Enterprise (or any other Earth/Federation vessel), and which has the ability to destroy all life on the planet.  It is up to the crew of the Enterprise to defeat this threat.  What movie is this?

Of course, this is J.J. Abrams' epic 2009 reboot/sequel <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001AVCFJM">Star Trek (Two-Disc Digital Copy Edition)</a>, right?  Well, yes.....and it's also Star Trek: Nemesis.  (The battleship in "Nemesis" is actually a Reman vessel, but that's a technicality.)

The big advantage that Abrams' movie had over its 2002 predecessor is that it was a reboot and a Kirk-Spock origin story, which offered Star Trek neophytes the chance to go into the movie without feeling intimidated by the extensive Trek backstory, and naturally brought fans back after four years of no Star Trek on television or movie screens.

To the new Star Trek fans that Abrams' excellent film created, and to the older fans that never saw "Nemesis" because of its notorious reputation, I say: give it a chance.  It is not a perfect film, but it's a good film with a lot of things going for it.  The following is a brief synopsis of the film's plot (I will avoid major spoilers whenever possible): after years of simmering hostility, the Romulan Empire and its new leader, Shinzon (played by Tom Hardy, from <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002ZG981E">Inception (Two-Disc Edition) [Blu-ray</a>] and the upcoming Batman movie), have offered to open peace negotiations with the Federation.  Starfleet dispatches the U.S.S. Enterprise under the command of Jean-Luc Picard (played superbly once again by the incomparable Patrick Stewart).  On its way to Romulus to begin negotiations, the crew makes a mysterious discovery: a replica android (named B-4) of Commander Data (Brent Spiner).  Even more mysterious, Picard discovers that Shinzon is a younger clone of himself.  Predictably, the ostensible peace offering reveals itself to be a trip laid by Shinzon to capture Picard and he reveals his true intentions: to destroy Earth using his vessel- the Scimitar (essentially a battleship that doubles as a WMD that can destroy all life on a planet).

The script, written by John Logan (of <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00003CXE7">Gladiator (Two-Disc Collector's Edition)</a> fame), offers a good storyline with the underlying theme of duality, as illustrated by B-4 and Data, and Picard and his younger evil doppelganger Shinzon.  As with many good Trek stories, it challenges the viewer to ask himself/herself an important moral question: in this case, what makes you the person you are (and in turn, could certain events make a person otherwise destined to be good not good at all?)?

Some have criticized the film because of its similarities to <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0000683DH">Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan - The Director's Cut (Two-Disc Special Collector's Edition)</a>, a film considered by many fans (myself included) to be the best of all the Trek films.  Admittedly, there are many similarities: a personal connection between the hero and the villain (Kirk-Khan vs. Picard-Shinzon), a potential WMD being wielded by the villain (the Genesis Device vs. the Scimitar), a space battle in a nebula, and a sacrifice by a major character to save the Enterprise (more on this later).  However, it must be said that after 45 years of television shows and movies, it is virtually impossible for any Trek writer to avoid at least partial similarities to a previous movie or television episode.  So, I do not begrudge the fact that screenwriter Logan decided to make several nods to a classic Trek movie.

In addition to this intriguing storyline, the movie features excellent visual effects, a masterful score by the late, great Jerry Goldsmith, and solid acting all around (especially by Stewart, Spiner, and Hardy).  So where does the movie lose some points?  I will explain:

1.  *An unnecessary death of a major character* To avoid spoilers, I will not mention the major character who dies in the movie.  However, it is clear that screenwriter Logan was going after the emotional impact of Spock's death in Star Trek II.  The sacrifice of the character in Nemesis is not handled as expertly as Spock's sacrifice, however.  Also, it must be said that the handwriting was clearly on the wall when this movie was being made in 2001-2002 that this was to be the last movie featuring the "Star Trek: The Next Generation" crew, making the killing off of an important character unnecessary.  Director Nicholas Meyer and the writers of <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0000UJL96">Star Trek VI - The Undiscovered Country (Two-Disc Special Collector's Edition)</a> wisely avoided this sort of tempting but gratuitous attempt at emotional poignancy with the send-off for the original cast in that movie.

2.  *A slightly disappointing climax*  (Minor spoilers) The climax of the movie is an exciting space battle between the Enterprise and the Scimitar in a nebula.  Clearly overmatched, the Enterprise briefly turns the tables on its adversary thanks to a surprising tactic undertaken by Counselor Troi (an underused character played well by Marina Sirtis).  With the viewer now emotionally invested in seeing the Enterprise stick it to Shinzon and the Scimitar, Screenwriter Logan then inexplicably has the Scimitar disable the Enterprise, so that Picard is forced to ram his ship into the Scimitar.

Logan had stated that he always wanted to see the Enterprise ram another ship, and while director Stuart Baird films the scene in an effective manner, it comes across as slightly gratuitous and unnecessary (not unlike the ill-advised, pointless "crashing of the Enterprise" sequence written by Brannon Braga and Ronald Moore in <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0002HDOB8">Star Trek - Generations (Two-Disc Special Collector's Edition)</a>).  Logan here makes the mistake that unfortunately many Trek writers make, in failing to understand that the Enterprise is a character too, and the viewer is invested in seeing this character succeed.  Thus, this scene would have been better written if the Enterprise clearly defeated the Scimitar in combat.  This would have in no way rendered impossible the final showdown between Picard and Shinzon on the Scimitar Bridge that unfolded in the movie.

3.  *Shinzon's motivation for wanting to destroy Earth is never fully or adequately explained*  To go back to J.J. Abrams' movie for a moment, the Romulan villain Nero (played by Eric Bana) decides that he will destroy Earth and the planet Vulcan out of revenge because the Federation- in his mind- did not help save his planet from destruction.  Nero's motivations- while evil, misguided, and misinformed- were understandable.

By contract, Shinzon's motivations for wanting to destroy Earth are never explained satisfactorily.  The only explanation we are given is by Picard in the lead-up to the final battle.  When asked why he believes Shinzon will go after Earth, he answers: "I know how he thinks."  Huh?  If anything, Shinzon, after being enslaved his whole life by Romulans, should want to destroy Romulus.  The fact that he decides inexplicably that he must destroy all life on a planet that has done nothing to him is a huge leap of logic that the movie does not quite pull off, and the climax ultimately suffers for it.

In summary, Star Trek: Nemesis is a good movie, and is not the disastrous train wreck that some Trek fans have made it out to be.  Ultimately, I think the movie failed at the box office because of its release date.  Paramount decided to release the movie in December 2002, when it would be up against Harry Potter, James Bond, and Lord of the Rings.  It should have come as no shock that Nemesis got lost in the shuffle.  Had it been released against lesser competition, I think it would have fared a lot better financially.  However, after the box office failure of this movie and the cancellation of <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000AOEMXC">Star Trek Enterprise - The Complete Fourth Season</a> in 2005 (sadly, when the show was just coming into its prime, but that's another review for another day), when things looked dire indeed for Star Trek, Paramount placed the franchise in the capable hands of J.J. Abrams.  Abrams- along with the superior writing team of Bob Orci, Alex Kurtzman, and Damon Lindelof- gave us an excellent film in 2009. Hopefully, Abrams will give us another good entry in 2012-13.  As we await the next installment from Abrams-Orci-Kurtman-Lindelof, I would highly recommend that Star Trek fans new and old check out this underrated and somewhat forgotten diamond in the rough from 2002.