How far would one determined, crazy woman go to have the man she wants? She would go as far as to cooking his daughter's rabbit. She would go as far as kidnapping his daughter and treating her to the carnival, while his wife is desperately trying to find her daughter. FATAL ATTRACTION is the top thriller of 1987 and it has helped every married man on earth keep his snake locked in the cage.

  Dan Gallagher (played by Michael Douglass) is a successful lawyer. He has a beautiful wife, Beth Gallagher (played by Anne Archer), and they have a charming six-year-old daughter, Ellen. On one particular Friday night, Dan and Beth are off to a book party with their friends, Jimmy and Hildy. There, Dan meets the beautiful Alex Forrest (played by Glenn Close), a senior editor working in Dan's company. After Beth and Ellen head off to Beth's parents for the weekend, Dan heads off to work for a meeting. Alex shows up at the meeting, where she and Dan have a harmless dinner. But Alex's flirtations and sexual innuendos are more than noticable. She and Dan spend the whole weekend together. But as Dan tries to leave that Sunday night, Alex becomes unstable to the point of slashing her wrists. Dan takes care of her and goes on his way, with a guilty conscience. For the next few weeks, Alex begins tormenting Dan, calling him day and night. She has gotten to the point of calling his appartment. Beth answers the phone, but everytime she does, Alex hangs up. Alex tells Dan that she is pregnant and she refuses to have an abortion. Dan continues to tell her that he made a mistake in sleeping with her and that he is now finished. But Alex is not about to just let Dan walk out on her. After learning that Dan has changed his number, Alex shows up at his appartment. Nothing of their affair is revealed just yet.

  Dan and the family move out to the country into a bigger place. Hoping that this will stop Alex's petty torments, Dan begins to feel a sign of relief. That is until after he and the family return from Beth's parents. Dan has bought Ellen a white rabbit, but Beth finds the poor innocent rabbit cooking in a pot. Dan reveals to Beth that this Alex's doing, leading him into telling Beth that he had an affair with her. She throws him out right then and there, but not before he calls Alex, telling her that Beth now knows. Beth gets on the phone and simply states that, "...If you ever come near my family again, I swear I will kill you. Do you understand?..." You would think Alex would have left it alone after having being threatened, but Alex does not want to let go just yet. She picks Ellen up from school and treats her to the carnival for some fun, leaving Beth in a serious state of panic. Desperately trying to find her daughter, Beth gets into a serious car accident. She may have been bruised and may have received a broken arm, but Beth is just fine. After seeing Beth in the hospital, Dan waits outside Alex's apartment building. Usually, you would have to ring the apartment's buzzer to be let in, but Dan has something up his sleeve. Some friends leave the building, where Dan finally enters. He reaches Alex's apartment and rings the bell. As she answers the door, Dan busts in and pratically kills Alex by strangling her. Knowing that he'll be charged for first degree murder, he lets go of Alex. Alex comes charging at Dan with huge butcher knife, but he stops her and puts the knife on the counter. The lieutenant doesn't help much. Dan tells him that he'll be picking up Beth from the hospital and the two will be at home for the weekend with Ellen. Beth has realized that Dan made a stupid mistake, so she has decided to forgive him.

  Beth is in the bathroom, getting ready to take a bath, as Dan waits in the kitchen, making a cup of tea for Beth. But Beth turns around and finds Alex at the bathroom door. She begins attacking Beth, but Dan, hearing Beth's screams, runs upstairs and into the bathroom for one final match. He grabs Alex by the throat and throws her into the tub full of water, drowning her. She stops suddenly, seemingly drowned, but she jumps out of the tub, ready to stab Dan with the same knife she used before. You would think she is going to stab him, but Beth shoots Alex in the stomach with a gun that was kept in Dan's drawer.

  A movie that has had everyone around the world arguing of right and wrong. But a film that is one to enjoy, no matter how many times you have seen it. If you have not yet seen this movie, then buy it and watch it. If you are a married guy, who is sleeping around, then you better buy yourself a copy because this could happen to you.