I will admit, I don't own this DVD.  This review is based on having seen it in the theaters.

I was excited to hear about this movie being released, because I enjoyed the games, I had played up through FF8(I don't even remember if 9 was out yet) and I was excited to see my favorite games on the screen.  I asked myself, "This is going to be cool!  What storyline are they going to come up with this time?"

Unfortunately, I didn't get any indication from any of the reviews in the papers.  They all preferred to focus on the novelty of taking computer animated characters and making them all look perfectly real like this was going to be the end of live acting in Hollywood once and for all.  Movie reviewers now were debating the pros and cons of computer animated "actors," and I'm sitting there going, "Oh, to hell with that!  What's the story about?"  Because that's what I loved about the games.

Finally, I saw the movie.  And for someone expecting to see a new Final Fantasy-esque storyline on the silver screen, my expectations were not met.  First off, after being taken to such places as Baron and Figaro and Midgar and Balamb, why does the movie start off in New York City?  Don't get me wrong, I love New York-it's just not Final Fantasy.

Next, the movie is literally all dialogue.  Nowhere do you have the random battles, the strengthening of characters in battle, and the preparation for the final face-to-face showdown at the end of the movie.  In fact, there was no final face-to-face showdown.  The good guys are all on Earth while the bad guy is up in the space station, and he blows himself up.

Square got so hopped up on using the technology that they neglected the plot.  They should have started out by creating a storyline using their familiar formula, and then if they wanted to use computer actors to make it, then great.  Or if anything, they should have majorly polished the plot they had before handing it to the animators(and if they had done that, they should have used a title other than Final Fantasy).