Admittedly, I'm a lover and a total pushover for movies from the Golden Age of Hollywood. It doesn't even have to be a great movie for me to find something to appreciate...as long as it was filmed in the 1930s, or 40s. However, The Ghost and Mrs. Muir is different...it's a rare cinematic gem, even among the many true classics from this period. It's not just a ghost story, but an unforgettable tale of unrequited love. Gene Tierney plays the beautiful, but unworldly Lucy Muir, while Rex Harrison plays the crusty "no longer of this world" sea Captain, Daniel Gregg. Once the widow Muir moves into the home of the long dead captain, things really start getting lively. Gregg, unhappy about his home being invaded, sets out to haunt Lucy Muir and her little family until they decide to leave. However, the feisty and brave Lucy refuses to be either haunted, or intimidated. Daniel, moved by Mrs. Muirs strength of character, as well as her great beauty, both inward as well as outward, finally relents and allows Lucy, her daughter...played by a very young Natalie Wood...and faithful housekeeper Martha to stay. All goes well until Lucy discovers that the small income left by her husband is gone and she now faces ruin, not the least of which is the loss of Captain Gregg's home by the sea. To keep Lucy from losing everything, Daniel comes up with the idea of writing a book..."ghost written" by him, but with all the credit going to Lucy. The book is published and is wildly successful, however, during the writing the two have fallen hopelessly in love. It's only when Daniel sees Lucy with a man who is very much alive... and played to perfection by George Sanders...that he finally realizes that he must disappear so that Lucy can have the earthly relationship she needs and deserves. However, love, even with ones feet firmly planted on solid ground, is not always possible. The ending of the movie does reaffirm for us though, that as elusive as love may appear...as invisible as it may seem...it's around us all the time. The farewell to his beautiful "Lucia", is one you will never forget and it's easy to understand why Harrison was called "Sexy Rexy" back in the 40s. He certainly was. There is real chemistry between Harrison and Tierney and the dialog is crisp and intelligent. The cinematography is a work of art and as for the soundtrack, it's Bernard Herrmann's finest...absolutely gorgeous. All-in-all, this is one of the best from the Golden Age of Hollywood and a must have for anyones movie collection.