What Wes Craven did perfect in A Nightmare on Elm Street, it's first sequel Freddy's Revenge did not follow up on. Where Nightmare capitalized on relationships with family and friends, Revenge fell flat on that and the relationships that they tried to muster up felt choppy. Where Nightmare began a set up of Freddy's origin and motives, Revenge basically just rehashed and did nothing more. David Chaskin, writer of Freddy's Revenge, did nothing to creatively further the story of Elm Street along. What he basically did was create a story that has little relation (Elm Street, the house, and Freddy) to the original. There is so much more that he could have done to make the story more interesting.

 There is obviously a huge homosexual overtone included in the film. Instead of throwing bits of it here and there, why not have either delved deeper into the psychology of Jesse's curiosity, or just leave the subplot behind? It did nothing for the film.

 Mark Patton, as Jesse, gave an okay show here. As did his co-star Kim Myers (who's constant comparison of looks to Meryl Streep never end, but are true). But the dialogue they were given and the situations they were put in weren't so good. Robert Englund continues to give bitter life to Freddy Krueger. The man was born to portay Krueger.

 All blunders aside, director Jack Sholder did set up a few interesting pieces. The party gone bad was a nice little piece, and Lisa's descent into Freddy's boiler was neat although the weird baby-faced dogs and stupid super-rat were kind of offbeat. One of the more famous scenes from Revenge where Jesse first crosses paths with Freddy is one of the better parts.

 The DVD pretty much comes barebones with just the Jump to a Nightmare feature. Then again, there's not much more one can hope for for this movie.

 A Nightmare on Elm Street : Freddy's Revenge (which really, who's he getting revenge on? Certainly not Nancy, and certainly not any of the kids of the parents who torched him) is one of the more lackluster of the series. It has little to do with part one and nothing to do with the entries after it, so it's actually skippable. But I do recommend it for the performance from Robert Englund and a few good scenes.