Come!  See a giant prehistoric Megaladon shark jump from the ocean depths into the sky to snatch an airliner out of the sky!  Come!  See a prehistoric octopus single handidly (get it?) take out an oil platform!  Come!  See a giant prehistoric Megaladon shark, who seems to get bigger throughout the movie, take a bite out of a U.S. Navy battleship!  Come!  See a giant prehistoric Megaladon shark take a bite out of a major U.S. landmark!

Seriously though - Wow, just wow, that's all I can say.  I'm a fan of B movies and the cheesier the better.  I also rarely, IF EVER, would utter the comment "that was the worst movie that I have ever seen".  However, I found myself saying just that as I watched this cinematic cheese fest.  Basically, this movie is about a prehistoric Megaladon shark and octupus who are awakened out of a prehistoric deep freeze by a government (at least I think it was a government experiment, it never says) experiment.  Debbie Gibson just happens to be under water in a mini-sub when this happens and catches it on tape.  She, along with other scientists and a lone survivor of one of the beast attackes (who, for some unexplained reason is locked away forever in prison for surviving the attack), then began to be followed by "the government" for whatever reason.  The two beasts then begin to wreak global havoc (if taking out a few ships can really be considered global havoc and a threat to mankind) and must be stopped.  As has already been stated by others (and in case you are clueless, it's all meant as sarcasm), Debbie Gibson and Lorenzo Lamas give Academy Award winning performances (as does the rest of the cast which is like 20 people) in this film.  Debbie Gibson is some kind of marine biologist/scientist and Lorenzo Lamas is the black suit wearing, pony tailed, secret government/ military operative (or whatever he was supposed to be since they don't bother telling you) happily sacrificing U.S. service personnel in the name of eradicating the global meance of the shark and octopus.

If you like cheese with your movie (and I'm talking Limberger here), completely ridiculous scripts that were written by 10 year olds who somehow got enough money from someone to make a movie, CGI effects made by the same 10 year old on their desktop computer, the same background/supplemental/CGI scene shown over and over again instead of filming something different, watching people who must have been picked off of the street at the last minute try to act, and sitting through a movie that begins to make taking your own life seem like a pleasant alternative, than this is the THE MOVIE for you - let me tell you!