"...[We] are here to understand the why, the reason..."-The Merovingian, Matrix Reloaded.
There is such poetry in this movie, both visual and spoken. The trick is to recognize and understand it. If one doesn't understand a certain poem, does one insult the integrity of it? If one did not understand Shakespeare, one would still recognize the pure genius poetry behind it, and would not call it "crap" or "a waste of time and money". 
Just as Shakespeare was a master of the English language, poetry and stage, The Wachowski Brothers are masters of the visual medium know as movies. They utilize every resource known to literature and film making in order to craft their fine tale. This movie has everything: action, romance, philosophy; you name it and it is here.
The story is obviously a continuation of the first Matrix movie and the second chapter in the trilogy. Returning in the story is Neo, the one, Morpheus, mysterious and wise leader, and Trinity, sensitive yet firm warrior/lover. Neo, having acquired magnificent powers since the first Matrix film, must continue on his journey to save humanity from the ever-present threat of the evil Machines; but not without with the aid of Morpheus, Trinity and a whole slew of new and intriguing characters.

This film is a cornucopia of radically different ideas, yet the Wachowski brothers successfully mold all of the different elements into one cohesive whole. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie because, just like all of Poe's stories, this movie functions superbly on many different levels: One can enjoy this movie just for the action, devote in on the philosophical aspects of it, or ponder the question presented throughout the film.
While this is an extremely complicated movie (many, including myself, had to see it numerous times, and even get written transcripts of certain scenes to fully comprehend it all), it is nonetheless extremely enjoyable. The speeches of the Oracle, Merovingian and yes, the ever-confusing Architect all contribute fascinating questions about fate, faith and humanity: What exactly is control? How can one make decisions of one's path is already decided? What is the matrix, and is the purpose of the one really just another form of control?
The people who didn't understand this movie obviously didn't care enough to think it over and try to comprehend it. Those who argue that many scenes were boring, misplaced and unnecessary also didn't understand a damn thing about this movie. Everything in this movie is necessary to the whole of the story; EVERYTHING is extremely interesting if only one take the time to understand it. There is enough interesting information in this movie to write a book, and still fit brilliantly into this movie.
This movie is yet another landmark in filmmaking history, and should go down as one of the greatest movies of all time because of how smart and entertaining it is. I myself have seen this movie at least 15 times, and would recommend anyone who asks me to go and watch this movie. Confusing, yes, but if one devotes themselves for five minutes to actually understanding the film, it would be well worthwhile. 
The DVD does come with two discs, yet has far less supplementary feature than the first movie; this is its one and only downfall. However, since the features included on the discs are enjoyable to watch, and the movie is still so good, I will still give this a five out of five, and would give it a ten out of five if I could. 
Watch this movie, and even if you don't understand it at first, devote some time to understanding this movie, and the rewards will far outweigh the work put in.