Let's be honest, this film could have been a travesty of Irish culture and folklore.  As much as Disney has produced some authentic and honorable films before, they have also been known to follow popular cadence and create what would now be considered offensive and insulting material.  Instead of chipper little green men, or sparkling faeries and unicorns, Darby O'Gill and the Little People instead deals primarily with the simple small-town Irish life around the onset of the 20th century.  While King Brian and the Little People do play an integral role in the story, they are not the main focus, nor the primary source of confict.

Enter instead Darby O'Gill (played brilliantly by Albert Sharpe), an aging caretaker of a large farm, who is deemed to be passing on in years.  The loveable antagonist (Sean Connery, in one of his first major roles that caught the eye of Albert R. Broccoli) arrives on the scene, but reluctantly so, for his soon falls for O'Gills daughter, Katie (Janet Munro, looking as charming and beautiful as ever).  Through it all, Darby and King Brian (Jimmy O'Dea, a fantastic character both on-screen and in real life) play their game of mental wits, which adds quite a bit of humor and playful Irish lore into the film.  Toss in a banshee and dullahan (some rather frightful spirits), and you have the makings of an all-around enticing story!

There are some lovely scenes of Ireland in the film, though it was mostly shot in Burbank.  If I had to make a complaint, it would be just that: I could always stand to see more of the Emerald Isle on screen.  Still, the scene paintings are extraordinary and the set design is very authentic and convincing.  The special effects (for the time) are well-done and fairly seamless, as one would expect from a Disney film of any era.

While some truly devoted Irish men and women might take some slight offense at the portayals in the film, for the most part, Darby O'Gill and the Little People is something of an ode to the Irish people.  Gone are the gaudy and constant smiling shamrocks and bright green clothes.  In are the Irish farmers, townspeople, d&eacute;cor, attire, and mannerisms.  This is a must-see film for St. Patrick's Day and definitely a safe family film for parents and kids alike.  (Due to some rather frightening ghost and fantasy scenes, you might consider screening this before showing to anyone under 5 or 6, but otherwise, it should be just perfect).  I hope you enjoy it as much as I have since I was a kid!