This is your classic love-triangle romantic-comedy.  Boy meets Girl.  Boy falls in love with Girl.  Boy buys Computer.  Girl falls in love with Computer?  Ok, well maybe it's not exactly the 'usual formula', but this was a movie way ahead of it's time, and yet still classic enough to make you long for the 80's again.

Long before Morpheus told Neo about A.I., this plucky little computer named Edgar, sprang a mind of his own, and wound up nearly overtaking a poor loser's girl away from him.  Sure it's not world domination, but then again would it be as funny if instead of the computer calling Dr. Ruth for 'relationship help', it tried to 'play a game' called Global Thermonuclear War?

He's the basic premise.  Guy winds up getting suckered, by a rather enterprising saleswoman, into buying a computer that can do everything.  And by everything I'm talking it can control all of your appliances, lights, doorlocks, etc.  And this was a computer from 1984.  No not Orwell's story, but released in theaters in '84, when I could only play 'Pong' on my Atari.  Anyways, the guy winds up spilling wine on his new computer, while it's connected by modem to his Boss's mainframe.  This apparently has been the secret to A.I., because before you know it, the computer has a mind of it's own and is learning exponentially. (Perhaps this is why we've always been taught to keep food and drink away from our little 'electronic friends'?)  While our would-be Hero learns about his computer's newfound abilities, a beautiful cellist, that's a classical bass for those not in the know, moves in upstairs.  As the 'Girl Upstairs' is practicing for her job with the Philharmonic Orchestra, our highly-intelligent little CPU overhears her tune and winds up mimicing, and then 'dueling' her musically.  Of course she believes it's actually 'The Guy Downstairs' playing, not a 'Learning Computer'.  Go figure, huh?  So needless to say the poor-shlub tries to use the computer's supergenius-virtuoso ability, to impress the girl.  Unforunately for him, the computer doesn't just have brains, but feelings as well, and one of them happens to be jealousy.  See the computer finds that he loves the girl and believes that she must really love him, since it is his music that impressed her to begin with.  Well needless to say this leads to comedic hillarity as the computer, who acts, not to mention talks, much like a spoiled 12-year-old who's denied something he really wants, battles it out with his 'owner'.  And I don't mean in the usual HAL 9000 or 'Joshua' from WarGames fashion.  But rather in a way that may just have inspired many a modern-day Hacker and Indentity Thief.  I won't spoil how it all turns out, but this movie with the tagline 'A Computer Fairy Tale', is much better than anything the Brother's Grimm ever came up with.

There's only ONE drawback.  The movie ISN'T on DVD!  This is a must have in any 80's Freak's, Romantic Tear-jerker's, Comedy Nut's, or even Computer Geek's movie library.  And how can you complete your collection if it's not even for sale?  I think it's High Time that the film's owners dusted this classic off and placed it on disc so that we can show the younger generation, we knew quite a bit about a computer's capabalities 'back in the day'.  Or maybe we might get lucky and fool 'em into thinking that our 'electronic toys' were better than their's are!