Cast your mind back to the early-mid eighties when He-man was every child's hero.  Birthdays and christmas presents were adorned with action figures, books and various other spin-offs from the cartoon. Afternoons  were filled with the excitement of watching, what to me was, the greatest  show on earth. School playtimes were passed by battling your He-man with  your best friends Skeletor and your dreams were filled of the magical  Eternia.  But it all had to end, we grew up, new cartoons such as the Ninja  Turtles were favored by the new kids, Donatello and leaonardo replaced  He-man, Orko and the rest of the Masters of the Univers Crew.  And today,  he-man is almost forgotten by the majority.  
But in 1987, Warner gave us  something to remeber the great man, with the theatrical release of Masters  of the Universe.  The film can be enjoyed by (supposed) adults like me,  without the scorn of immaturity accusations that would be hailed at you if  you were to reclaim your He-man collection from the attic,  dust off your  figures and start fighting them.  
Masters of The Universe was a good  attempt at bringing to life the cartoon, however it could have been better  had it stayed a little closer to the original scipts.  Dolph Lundgren is an  inspired choice to play He-man and Frank Langella is equally suited in his  role as Skeletor.  However, with the exception of the Sorceress, Teela, Man  of Arms and Evil Lyn, there really are few of the original characters.  I  was extremely dissapointed when I first saw this, that my personal  favourite character, Orko (that little alien Jester thing) wasn't in it.  Also He-man doesn't flit between being the normal human prince Adam and  then turning into He-man as was the case in the cartoon, remember the  immortal phrase "by the power of Greyskull" animated by Adam  holding up his sword and then becoming He-man.  I also felt that not enough  effort was put into Eternia, there is little evidence of the fantastic  landscapes and castles that the cartoons and books portrayed Eternia as  having.  The film, for the majority is set on Earth, after a key which  enables time and location travel is stolen by Skeletor.  A battle ensues on  Earth between He-man and Skeletor and is then continued back in Skeletors  lare in Eternia, where Skeletor is holding the sorceress prisoner.  It is  up to He-man to defeat Skeletor, the Lord of Destruction and save the  sorceress.
The film may not have an Oscar winning script, but the actors  do a good job (look out for Courtney Cox in an earley role).  The plot is  simple, but this is what you would expect and even want from such a film,  after all it is based on a childrens cartoon.  The movie is, despite the  few minor criticisms that I made, extremely enjoyable, all eighties kids  will enjoy this nostalgic trip.  To me this movie will remain as one of my  fondest in my video collection...the last testament to my childhood.