Having visited St. Louis several times over the years, this time-capsule shows the place before the arch when Stan Musial reigned the city. I must say I bought this DVD more out of curiosity with low expectations than rounding out my McQueen collection and then I sat mesmerized by the noir-ish feel of this building surprising caper movie. This nugget falls into the Asphalt Jungle type of drama, which is very high company. Some of the reviewers did not catch this because of its subtle resemblance. In other words as you are in with the hoods and their caper, you begin to experience the danger of involvement with "associates" you don't really know. Like in "Asphalt", the tension builds as the character flaws of the participants unravel before your eyes. The cover artwork captures the Peckinpah ("Getaway") look to McQueen. This does not disappoint. Although this seems low-budget, the script is brilliant from beginning to end. McQueen, surprisingly has all his chops. Hot-headed, moody, conceited(put-on) and romantic. The "unknown" character actors keep it real. The boss, "John Egan",(Crahan Denton)brings loads of experience to his dark persona as the hardened boss. Then we meet McQueen's buddy, Gino(David Clarke)not sharply-drawn, his sister (played well by a Shirley Maclaine-type) in all her scenes, and the sociopathic sickie(James Ducan)rounds out this thrown-together gang.This movie should be seen by any teenager today who does not know what you mean by being careful about whom you associate. The screenwriter was certainly aware of Theordore Dreiser's work on the American Dream and brings this film to its surprising climax with tremendous impact,utilizing even true participants in this robbery. The robbery here is two-fold, the bank job and a squandered American Dream. The only reason it did not deserve 5 stars in my opinion was the locale-lighting did not measure up to the script that was just a hair away from Kubrick quality. I would also venture that this seldom-seen gem is ripe for a make-over by a Quentin Tarantino. You can see by this movie how McQueen shot into "Wanted-Dead or Alive" so quickly. An overlooked gem.