I've always been a fan of the Moody Blues.  If not every album, I've got almost all of the albums the Moody's released.  The sonic quality of their vinyl albums were 2nd to none, perhaps only to the quality of the music PInk Floyd released around the same time.  Unfortunately I'd never had the opportunity to see the Moody Blues in concert.  I'd heard fantastic things about this DVD so when I had the chance to order it, I did, and I must say that I'm very impressed.

I specifically wanted the Blu-ray version of this show since it is mixed in full surround.  The quality of the recording will not disappoint and certainly is a cut above what I was used to hearing from their old vinyl.  While the surround portions of the recording didn't add much to the overall experience (mainly crowd noise) it didn't subtract from the experience either.  The main mix, left, right, center and LFE are perfect.

While not getting any younger, Justin Hayward can still sing and play guitar.  He was dead on during this performance at the Greek Theater in Los Angeles.  John Lodge wasn't quite as good on vocals as he once was - he seemed to struggle a bit on the higher stuff - but he can still play guitar with the best of them.  Even though Lodge's performance was a bit weak early, his voice seemed to warm up some as the set went on and later, he sounded much better.  Still, there's no comparison to Hayward's singing.  Justin is truly the voice of the Moody Blues!  Graeme Edge can still play the drums too.  Best of all though was his one solo singing performance during Higher and HIgher.  I won't spoil it for you, but it was one of my favorite performances of the entire concert.  Graeme was having fun here!

Finally, there's a special interview session at the end with all three of the original band members which I enjoyed.  They discussed the history of the band and a bit of personal information about themselves.  I think you'll enjoy that too.  All told, this is a must-have DVD if you are a fan of the Moody Blues.