From another reviewer: "After very nearly getting cancelled at the end of Season Four, the WB renewed ANGEL with the understanding that the show would try to move more towards a format where each episode stood alone".

If true, that would explain a lot.  One of the main things I've liked about Angel (and Joss Whedon shows in general) was the continuity.  The days of Star Trek ought to be left in the past, where individual episodes would stand alone at the expense of having no overall plot.  I *like* overall plot, and Angel had plenty of it in seasons 1-4.

Season 5 seemed to give up the ghost, with a lot more stand-alone episodes that didn't progress the plot forward, and if that was done at the direction of WB, then I hope Joss can find a better network to work for in the future, one that will let him create the truely awesome work he's obviously capable of without tying him up with the incompetent whims of network execs.  Dear WB, you suck, thxbye. - Your Customers

The season is definately worth buying, though.  Without spoiling anything, I think I can say that bringing Spike in as a main character was excellent.  I was disappointed with the way Wolfram & Hart was used, though -- again, very Star Trek.  Supposedly Angel and team are the head of a giant organization, but, like our old friend Captain Kirk, when any mission comes up it's the chief officers and maybe Ensign Noname going out on assignment.  Hmm, I wonder who's going to die?  Note to self, never work security on a starship or in a big evil corporation and resign immediately if ever asked to go on a mission with the bosses.  I thought that was a bit too predictable for a Joss Whedon show to stoop to.

But still, I enjoyed the direction it took, nice wrap up for the show and, dare I hope, an ending that cries out for a follow up movie, ala the big screen?

In the meantime, I suggest all the mourning fans check out Whedon's "Firefly" series.  If you liked Angel and/or Buffy, you might as well just buy Firefly on DVD outright, as you're guarenteed to love it.

Here's to hoping Joss gets the freedom, desire and ability to do another full blown TV series.  He's the best we've got in the midst of a lot of tripe writers!  I realize tripe sells big these days, but those of us into continuity and quality would like at least ONE show still live and running to watch.