Much like orgasm, sleep is necessary, life-affirming, soul-enhancing and mysterious.

Two things have led me to 'Eraserhead':
1] The recent death of Patrick McGoohan brought back into focus his obsessive cage motifs and dynamic rants against collectivism and conformity - and 2] a heavy cold: your humble scribe has been suffering from a brutal attack of catarrh. When lying down to sleep, the phlegm sticking to the back of my throat is making the same noise as Henry Spencer's horrific issue - Beechams just isn't the answer.

McGoohan's removal is the most telling of the two events. Just as it looks like Lynch will never fully explain 'Eraserhead', so too the hidden substratas of 'the Prisoner' are probably now lost for ever. There are those of us with theories - which however passionately and indignantly we expound - can now never be proved.
Just as it should be.

There isn't sufficient mystery in the world. Not nearly enough child-like wonder.
The pressure of life is a clanking, hissing reality. I have no fear at all of getting old but the thought of ever-increasing responsibility and reliance is breath-restrictingly worrying.

The things that make me jump from sleep aren't terrors of mortality or disease, but mundane fears of phone-calls not made, a deadline missed, an enquiry unattended. Everyday nonsense - sorted in twenty minutes of light and consciousness - takes on twisting, uncomfortable apprehensiveness when the eyelids finally start to flutter.

In Lynch-World horrors are deeply personal, not shared. 'Eraserhead' reminds of Derek Jarman, 'the Wicker Man', Hammer movies (Lynch has definitely seen 'Curse of the Werewolf'), Powell and Pressburger, Cocteau, Morrissey...
It's also the funniest film. Lynch exorcises his inner-demons by laughing at us, and by laughing with him, we laugh at the biggest joke of all...
(Imagine ladies, answering one of those 'lonely hearts' ads and Lynch turning up!  Pockets stuffed with cigarettes, 'the Undiscovered Wit of Noel Edmonds' in one hand, and a dvd of 'Attack of the Mushroom People' in the other!)

'Eraserhead' - furtive and under-hand - is a case of tell the truth and shame the devil. It's not possible to harbour misgivings when the joke being played is such a good one.
Henry, by Jack 'Chaplin' Nance is enthralling. The 'Man in Planet's (obviously the viewer) death throes in the same white light that finally gives Henry the freedom he craves, only to have everything snatched away by 'heaven' is almost Ophulsian in its pathos and symbolism.

The fact that there is no final escape is the political satire, but it's the presentation of 'normal' family life, or God-help-us, family life as Lynch sees it, that gives the comedy its snap and edge.

Insane chickens splutter blood at the worst dinner party in the world, a shoot grows from a mound next to Henry's bed where an alarm clock should be, his unfettered lust for the woman across the hall (very probably a prostitute), his dour, angry partner who is even more consumed by the depressing inevitability of existence than he is...
The tears will roll down your cheeks.

'Songs in the Key of Life' could easily be titled 'Songs From the Key of Dreams'. Without food or water - we die; but take away our sleep and we thrive as conduits. All the best serial killers motives are in their dreams and your appendix can randomly kill you.
We're right on the edge, every hour of every day. Brittle, delicate, full of doubts and unfulfilled aspirations and then lastly, we're hurled into the void.

I don't worry that God OR the devil awaits us there - Lynch would be a crazier eternity altogether.