In response to the movie "Rain Man", I felt that the role played by Dustin Hoffman (Raymond Babbitt) was unbelievable. Dustin Hoffman is a great actor as the Rain Man, and demonstrates incredibly well how an autistic person  reacts towards certain things as well as changes in his routine life. He  captures autism in such a way that you could actually believe in his  performance. I was amazed at the way he was able to pull off this role.
  Tom Cruise's role (Charlie Babbitt) was equally as brilliant, who is the  villain of the story who undergoes such a sharp change that it's almost not  visible until nearly the end. Charlie is shown to be a selfish and greedy  jerk at the beginning of the film, but as mentioned before, his gradual  understanding of his brother's disability, and extra abilities, are what  eventually leads to the grasping of a strong relationship with his brother.  Tom Cruise, in my opinion, was perfectly suited for the flashy, egotistical  character of Charlie, and I think he did a great job.
 Furthermore,  the directing of the film was beautiful, for the most part just letting the  action unfold, which is exactly the way it should have been done. I also  believe that "Rain Man" portrays many aspects of autism quite well. The  movie is an introduction to autism for most people who see it for the first  time.  In summary, Charlie Babbitt, played by Tom Cruise, is a  self-centered car dealer, and leaves on vacation with his girlfriend  Susanna, played by Valeria Golino. However, on route with his girlfriend,  he unfortunately learns that his father who threw him out as a teenager has  passed away, and decides to show up at his funeral for only one reason, to  get the money his father left behind. Upon arriving for the funeral,  Charlie learns that his father left him a now antique convertible, which he  originally loved and wanted in his teen years, but which his father never  let him drive. Unfortunately for Charlie, he can't get the money which he  truly desired, since he discovers that it has been given to a mental  institution Charlie is unaware of. Charlie therefore decides to take  matters in his own hands and goes to the institution to find out what their  connection with his father was. It is only then that he learns that he has  a big brother by the name of Raymond, played by Dustin Hoffman, who is  autistic and lives in this institution.  Charlie tries to  convince the manager of the institution to let him have the money, since  his brother can't do nothing with it because he doesn't even understand the  concept of money. The manager of the institution refuses to give him the  money, because he promised Charlie's father that he'd make sure to leave it  to Raymond no matter what happened. Charlie is enraged by what has happened  and by his father keeping Raymond's existence from him his entire life. As  a result, Charlie takes Raymond out of the institution without the  permission of the manager, and this is how Charlie gets to know his big  brother Raymond. The two begin a long road trip that will lead them to an  understanding of each other, and I believe that this trip across the  country was the start in the relationship between the two brothers. 
  This movie was very emotional at some times, and had it's funny moments as  well. I believe that "Rain Man" is truly a work of art, and a film that  everyone can watch, understand, and enjoy.