Watching this movie is like having someone scratch a spot on your back that wasn't even itchy to begin with -- but then afterwards it feels sooooooo good. I loved it! This is unusual, because lately dramas bore the crap out of me... But not this one. The opening scene (with Kevin Kline's priceless "performance") endeared the film to me immediately - as did every bit of wit and crisis that followed. A friend recommended this movie to me, but in an offhand way so that I forgot about it entirely for about five months. Then my sisters rented it, and I was amazed at what I'd missed. (My sisters loved it too, by the way.) 
I usually like Kevin Kline anyway, but the only other movie I'd seen Hayden Christensen in was that -awful- new Star Wars movie. (Come on, we can all admit now that it was terribly done.) I had no idea he was in 'Life As A House' until his face showed up on the screen - and even then I had trouble placing where I'd seen him before, since he looked and ACTED so differently. In other words, this time he did a marvelous job. I was impressed with the way he pulled off the whiny teenager bit so convincingly... and then changed so much towards the end of the film. 
'Life As A House' is about relationships and their boundaries. As you go from one scene to another, you realize how representative of real life the film is; boundaries are hazy and they shift so often that it's hard to keep track of who you should hold close to your heart and who should be kept at arms length. The theme of death-in-the-family was something of a low blow, but it was the only believable way those particular people could have been brought together. In this instance, the cheap shot was the right one. 
Film-making is an art; the whole point of art is to emphasize the things in life that you see as beautiful (or just powerful), so that others may appreciate that beauty. This movie showed the beauty a family exudes, despite the bitterness and hang-ups... And the power that family ties can have. I really enjoyed 'Life As A House' and I think you will too. 
PS: Read the other reviews if you want a plot outline. :)