Grand Illusion is a brilliant film.  The textual clarity, showcased artfully by Criterion's release of a pristine copy, is layered and poignant.  The characters and their situations examine the devestation of war on individuals, societies, and countries regardless of political justifications.  Man is on display in this film...his motivations, reactions, and frailities are laid bare, helping the viewer to understand his own humanity in the end.  The importance of this film is also multilayered.  Renoir's work stands alone on it's story, characterization, photography, and direction.  While the modern filmgoer may not find the b/w and subtle storytelling to be as visceral as the latest Arnold or Mel extravaganza, the quality of the film as a whole should be very satisfying to a true film lover.  The characters, like people, are not simply good or bad, generous or greedy, but driven by many needs, values, and decisions.  It is an art of examination that most film writers have forgone in modern times to replace with a car chase, a joke, or a blonde...anything to alleviate the pain of watching human conflict.  The viewers find themselves discomforted by the quiet determination of Renoir to make us see our own motivations.  We find, of course, that general stock characters must be introduced to allow us to do this...the stern commandant, the intellectual noble, the common survivor...but Renoir manages to enable these characters with lives that beyond the "type".  We see the layers of these people. and we care what happens to them.  Renoir creates some wonderful shots to support his characterizations.  As you watch the film, take special note of how he uses the buildings in support of the individual representations.  How the entrances and exits within those buildings are creating moods and depth. These directional applications are not by chance...they are deliberate, and illuminate one small contexual layer that adds to the films relevant points.The acting, of course, is flawless.  Gabin and Fresnay are very good, von Stroheim is never better, and watch for the smaller and very subtle performance of Julien Carette.  Perhaps Grand Illusions greatest relevance, while not dismissing the that on it's own it is one of the great films of all time, lies in the fact that it's relativeness is altered in the Pos-WWII climate.  Once our innocence was lost in the numbing knowledge of the death camps, some of the film's message becomes dated, almost over-simplistic.  We are watching a time when the terms "Final Solution" and Bataan did not immediately create an image.  Grand Illusion seeks to remind us that even in war, we are human.  But on some level, by 1945, we had learned that while human, we can be soulless.