It always kills me how people can view movies so one mindedly. Holding this film up to other Merchant Ivory pictures is inconceivable. Firstly, movies like "Room with a View" or "The Remains of the Day" are masterpieces, rich with beautiful scenes, witty reparte, and conventions of their times and places. "Le Divorce", in many aspects, is not much different on these planes. Yes, it is a flawed movie, with some holes, but mostly it is a very subtle movie. I've read some reviews on this site attacking the views on Americans in this film... okkkk... may I just remind everyone that this is a film SET IN FRANCE about the cultural differences between the French and Americans. In some scenes it might be overplayed some what, but I am willing to bet most of that was done to emphasize the point for typical lazy American audiences. Okay, I am American, I love my country and the people in it, but come on, most American movie audiences go to a movie to be entertained, especially a movie featuring Kate Hudson that sports a poster of her smiling innocently next to an equally blonde beauty, Naomi Watts. This movie is not to entertain, and it's charm is in the subtle details. Example; Isabel's smile and nod routine to her neice's ballet teacher because she doesn't know French, or when Edgar makes his comment about deciding if she will become his misteress and she looks around to make sure no one is listening in. This is a movie that is supposed to be about an American coming to Paris, who, like most Americans, is stunted culturally (as in worldly) and starts to change her personality and become more sophisticated as a result of this different culture she comes into contact with. Also, may I just mention that Roxy and Olivia Pace are expatriates, not ex-patriots. There is a huge difference, which I will assume, perhaps wrongly, you can figure out on your own. Overall, I think this movie has a lot of merit, but I also think it must be approached by an impartial audience looking for a movie that is smart and witty that you will perhaps have to think about for awhile. This isn't "A Room with a View", how could it be, but on it's own this movie is an interesting look at what happens when two very different cultures come together to work through a problem.