I had very little expectations when my brother-inlaw asked me to watch this DVD with him. I have been watching Hong Kong produced action films since the 70's and I thought here we go again with wall-to-wall fighting, marginal cinematography, bad dubbing and cheesey soundtrack. To say I was pleasantly surprised at what a great show this one turned out to be is a total understatement.

 Many would complain that the plot is on the weak side. I certainly agree that the screenplay is not going to win any major accolades, but for the genre which normally has little or no plot, this one is logical and relatively easy to follow. It even has a sad twist which might cause a few tears to be shed.

 Where this film really shines though is in its presentation. The modern sets, the brilliantly choreographed fighting sequences and the wonderfully executed yet not overdone special effects give this film an ultra-slick and ultra-chique look. The female leads are drop dead gorgeous. They exude abundant sex-appeal even though they are not sexually exploited to any extent in the film. The plot line and action is well paced and should keep audience glued to their seats.

 This review would not be complete without a mention of the sound track. The inclusion of the 1970 Carpenters' megahit "Close to You" has been much maligned by a number of reviewers. I personally think the use of this song in the opening fighting scene is nothing short of absolute brilliance. The slow, soulful strains of the ballad is such an antithesis to the fast paced fighting action on the screen that the brilliant combination of the two gives these sequences an almost surreal quality. The viewer feels a sudden sense of detachment from the action and the effect is very powerful indeed. The rest of the soundtrack is well selected and complements the scenes very well. I am extremely glad that the film scorer did not include too much ear screeching heavy metal clips which are so prevalent in this genre of film. Kudos to him (or her)!!!

 Lastly, this film has most commonly been compared to Charlie Angels I and II mostly because of the coincidental presence of three female leads in this film. Even though So Close handily beats both the Angels films , a much more worthy comparison would be with the Tarantino film "Kill Bill I". Without exagerration, So Close gives Kill Bill more than its run for its money.

 For those who haven't seen it, buy the DVD now for your collection. You will not regret it! This eye candy is a definite TEN!!!