The Constant Gardener is a triumph for Director Fernando Meirelles. The movie, filmed in Kenya and South Sudan, was based on John Le Carre's novel (also set in Africa) of love, intrigue and suspense in the British diplomatic service.

The story centres on Justin, a mid-level diplomat in the British Foreign Service, he bumbles around not wanting to upset people and just 'does his job'. He meets and marries the passionate and somewhat unruly Tessa, a political activist. Tessa, unknown to Justin, is involved in exposing unethical drug trailing on sample populations of poor Africans by pharmaceutical companies. Tessa's activities begin to embarrass some members of the diplomatic staff, and she is found brutally murdered. Justin, who was oblivious until her death of her attempt to expose the pharmaceutical intrigue, decides to uncover the truth about her murder. As Justin unravels the truth of Tessa's involvement in the exposure of the drug trails, he enters her world and 'transitions' into her relationships.

Ralph Fiennes is well cast as Justin Quayle, the gardener of the title. Tessa is played by Rachel Weisz, who got an academy award (2006) for her performance, and she was absolutely amazing as Tessa. But for my money the pottering, passive Justin was just wonderfully portrayed by Fiennes. He typifies the British 'mustn't grumble' character of so many serving in the diplomatic corps. Also worth noting is the strong performance by Pete Postlewaite as a jaded South African doctor working with refugees, he gives the movie a wry 'reality bite'.

The story is told in 'flash-back' sequences with Justin remembering scenes from the life he shared with Tessa, and the plot moves back and forth from past to present, Africa to Europe, and gradually builds up to a very powerful ending. The music is wonderfully atmospheric and really adds to the slightly melancholy, pessimistic nature of the film.

The intrigue of the plot which involved the British High Commission, pharmaceutical trails, and 'jobs in the UK', really made me ponder the 'ethical investment' policy of the British government in the late 1990s. The movie raises some politically sensitive issues about the collusion of self-seeking individuals in government and pharmaceutical investment. Thank goodness Holywood is at last getting over its, um, 'liberal tendencies'...