All right, first of all, Michael Haneke is a talented filmmaker (just see his brilliant "Cache"!). And I consider myself very open-minded about films and am willing to meet a filmmaker halfway or even farther.

However, I consider "Funny Games" to be irresponsible filmmaking. In fact, it's downright cruel-- to an audience, especially-- not to mention the cruelty that is unleashed on the characters throughout the picture.  This is not a pleasant film by any means-- even if you're a fan of extreme horror movies or unrelenting suspense pictures.  It is not entertaining.  Sure, perhaps as an intellectual exercise in the "facade of violence" that exists in motion pictures (which is what Haneke is saying), "Funny Games" is well-made, well-acted, and smart. Naomi Watts and Tim Roth give magnificent, heartbreaking performances.

But for what?  After viewing the film, I felt as if I were one of the preppie killers-- and that's probably the point-- but I don't need it, thank you very much.  I got the point and it's not something that really should be made, IMHO. This is a film of excruciating psychological torture inflicted upon a family -- including a child and a dog -- whom we LIKE.  And again, that's the point.  But no thank you!  I don't need to see it!  There is enough real violence and terror in the real world. I don't want to see a family be terrorized for two hours and then murdered with no catharsis or redemption.  No thank you!

You know, I don't want to believe that movies really influence people to do stuff, but there is evidence that they do.  "A Clockwork Orange" was banned in Britain for 20 years because there were some copycat killings that occurred soon after the film's release there in 1971.  What's-his-name Hinkley tried to shoot a president because he was influenced by "Taxi Driver."  I could see "Funny Games" influencing some deranged young men into committing these kinds of crimes.

Mind you, I'm not for censorship in any way.  Let people see "Funny Games" if they want.  But I do question Michael Haneke's (and the producers' and the studio's) intentions in making it in the first place.  The film's message is sick, and it's a message we don't need.