People who love Fargo (I'm not one of them) don't seem to enjoy this. But this is where the Coens film contibution began and where they marked their premature zenith. The Coens have less and less originality and importance with every new trivial movie they release. Back when this was made they had no budget and amazing ideas, and that is the pleasure of watching this movie. Now they have big budgets and bland ideas. Were you concerned once in "O brother" that George Clooney might not get Holly Hunter back? If you were, are you under the age of nine? If "O Brother" was half an hour longer or shorter it would have no impact on the finished film. I've seen K-mart commercials with more tension than "Fargo" and "O Brother." For every challenging moment in "Blood Simple" there are engaging and satisfying results.
So here it is finally... You've waited forever for this DVD and there are NO extra features and it's more expensive than movies packed with features. This DVD compounds the violations the Coens began with their re-edited re-scored and re-duced re-release of the movie. Anything resembling a pause has been edited out along with some amusing details. This is like taking Lars von Triers Zentropa (Another badly needed DVD that's missing in action) and releasing it in pan and scan and cutting thirty minutes out of it. The Coens think this isn't their best work, which makes you wonder which of their lesser efforts they consider to be their opus. As the quote goes, "a critics job is to take the art away from the creator before they ruin it." It's too late for this film. Purchasing it feels exactly like being .... You can get more extras on a ... DVD thriller like Die Hard 3. Adding insult to injury, the Coen's can't resist sticking their finger in your eye on the audio commentary, by providing a bogus pundit making up phony-facts and stating the obvious as the movie progresses. It's a 4-star movie, but the DVD is just worthless. It was a milestone in film, now it's just entertainment.
Get over yourselves Coens! Do you realize what schmuchs you've become?