I have been watching this movie since it came out. It was the first movie that my mom ever bought me. I loved this movie even when I was young. I may not have understood it all then, but I loved it regardless. I am seventeen now and I still love it. As far as what most people are saying about Esmeralda, she is not that provocative. Young kids are not going to notice that she does not wear clothes in Disney "dress code"; I don't hear people complaining about Ariel swimming around in a seashell bra throughout 90% of The Little Mermaid. Plus the fact that Eric found Ariel on the beach naked. Bottom line about Esmeralda, kids are not going to think anything of her clothing and dancing. She is just a cartoon character to them. Half the time you cannot get me to take off my jacket or wear shorts so inappropriate dress is not a concern. As far as the movies goes, it is an excellent teaching tool. Frollo was cruel and mean the whole movie, and where did he end up? He was cruel and he was punished by karma for what he had done. This movie also teaches kids that no matter how bad your life can become it will get better. Sure, there is some violence, but that's why kids have parents, the television doesn't raise kids, people do. As long as you teach your child not to hit and fight like parents are supposed to this movie will be okay for them. However, if you are one of those parents that plops your child in front of the television and let them watch SpongeBob and violence all day then they will be violent. I am not saying that kids can't watch television, just make sure that someone teaches them right from wrong. You teach a kid right from wrong and you can expose them to anything. A sheltered child will turn against you when they get older; I have witnessed enough as a kid in high school.

Overall, this movie is great. Sorry for the parenting lecture, but I hate that some kids are missing out on this wonderful movie because their parents are too lazy to teach their kids right from wrong. Every kid should have a chance to watch this movie and decide if they like it or not.