"Do you want to come and play with me" Pretty Pretty!!! As The Great Tyrant aka The Black Queen ( Anita Pallenberg, Rolling Stones girl friend) utters those immortal words,  we realize we are in sci-fi heaven. The wait is over with this stunning first time release to blu-ray of the 1968 cult classic Barbarella starring Jane Fonda. On my big H.D flat screen T.V the film transfer and re-mastering looks simply spectacular. Gone is the dirty dull print from the previous ordinary dvd release, here is the film in all its glory, with 4 minutes extra footage of flesh and frivolity. Its certainly not the completely uncut version that buffs have been praying for, but we must be thankful for a beautiful High Definition version. The opening sequence seems to have longer shots of Miss Fonda's ample assets, those assets the naughty title sequence letters previously covered up ..... or is it just wishful thinking? The restored and re-mastered transfer here is truly glorious in detail, its brighter and clearer, and the details are crisp. Gone are all the dirt spots and scratches, the blacks are black, and the colors vivid and vibrant.  The sound is great too, you can hear the Black Queen's switch blades cut through the air like a knife, and the fantastic soundtrack by Bob Crewe (on CD if you can find it) is so memorable.
The sets seem more breathtaking, and the futuristic costumes by Parisian designer Jacques Fonteray and Paco Rabanne seem somehow raunchier and even more way-out. Roger Vadim the director and Jane Fonda's then husband once said "We want people to laugh with Barbarella, because she uses her body as a writer uses a pencil, as a means of self expression." And today the humor in Barbarella seems as fresh and tongue in cheek as it did when first released, even more so. Of course Barbarella is camp and kitsch it was meant to be, but its also light hearted and fun, and a wonderful example of science fiction being spoofed. My other favorite film of this genre is Danger Diablolique also starring Barbarella's angel Pygar John Phillip Law. Barbarella has been a long time favorite of mine because I get the humor, I love the costumes and sets, and the performances by all the actors. Its a real trip too because it doesn't take itself too seriously, and its just stunning to watch on blu-ray. So thank you to the powers that be for finally re-mastering it. But please, lets see some extras and at least interviews with as many of the cast as you can. Even the still stunning Jane Fonda herself now recognizes  the film as a cult classic, and appreciates it more than ever. So do buy Barbarella on blu-ray, and sit back and enjoy it for the glorious over the top confection that it is. Robert.