When Evita originally came out, it was considered a mild disappointment. It was pretty successful, got mixed to favorable reviews, and won some awards, but it had so much Oscar hype before its release that its lack of major nominations caused it to be seen as a bit of a failure. This is unfortunate, because it's actually a much better movie than most pictures that win the big awards. The acting is generally excellent, particularly from Madonna. It's beautifully photographed. The music is usually very well done, with great singing (there are points where Madonna's fantastic singing will make you wonder why she never seems to pull that level of vocals off on her albums). Some people complain that the singing isn't as opera-oriented than the original show, but given the mainstream audience this was clearly an intentional decision.

The movie has its faults. The main, overwhelming problem with this movie is its loyalty to the original play. Don't listen to purists who claim this movie strayed from the original. The fact is that they kept this virtually all-musical, something that doesn't work nearly as well on screen as it would on stage. The main problem with this decision was that the story has a great deal of political and historical content, and the songs that are supposed to give you this background don't do a very good job of giving you an understanding of the history. Three almost unlistenable songs--Peron's Latest Flame, Rainbow Tour, And the Money Kept Rolling In--try to give you this background in the context of overbearing musical-theatre-rock. The style of those songs and the flashiness of the editing, not to mention Antonio Banderas's sometimes indecipherable accent, keep any of this important historical information from being understood by the vast majority of the audience. You see flashy clips of riots, people being beaten (by police? be rebels? who knows?), and politicians yelling at each other (about what?), with nothing but Andrew Lloyd Weber's trashy theatre-"rock" to explain--or not really explain--what's happening. People who dislike this movie, I suspect, are largely thinking back to this part of the movie. All they had to do to eliminate most of the problems people have with this movie would be to take out the weak songs, add some real, non-musical scenes that give comprehensible historical background, and only keep the really good songs.

This could have been a great movie. You get a real sense of Eva Peron as a person, and the story is moving at times. Madonna is great and should have been nominated for an Oscar. Many of the songs are excellent. It's also worth praising for its photography alone. It's a shame they didn't do anything to mend such glaring, relatively easily fixable flaws, because it could have been far more successful.