Plot Summary:Mr. X, a successful drug dealer with a plan to retire, is suddenly thrust into a drug score gone seriously wrong by a man who plays him as a pawn.  Though it takes the better part of the movie for Mr. X to set himself on rails, he quickly asserts that he is no pawn to be played by three kings.  The story involves hidden deals, shifting alliances, baggage and a game where the stakes quickly escalate.  This is a wonderfully well-done crime movie.

It's hard to find much fault with this movie.  I didn't catch all the twists in the plot so I'm sure this is a movie that will reward one and maybe two more vieiwings.  The script is pretty good.  It's an intelligent script, written for a viewer of crime dramas.  The script doesn't spell out why certain events are happening; you have to piece together some of the connections.  It doesn't totally tune you out.  You do see some causal relationships between events and characters but the movie expects you to do some of the work.

The acting and character development are solid.  Daniel Craig plays this role exceptionally well.  His character moves through three phases that are marked by changes in the way Craig carries Mr. X, most notably through his facial expressions.  In the opening section of the movie, we see Mr. X with calm, cool assurance.  He does not screw people over in his deals.  He is above board, he pays proper homage, he treats the men under him right.  Then the fun begins and Daniel Craig shifts his character from a man of cool composure to a man whose face reflects suppressed surprised, a bit of indignation (as if, how is it I cannot retire?!) and a fair amount of "What the heck is going on?"  The final phase of Craig's character is when he accepts the forces arrayed against him and he responds.

The pace of the script is casual even though the events playing out are far from casual.  I think the pacing of the script is intended to convey the sense of calm composure X has within him.  Though X gets rattled during phase 2 of his character's evolution, he nevertheless comes off polished without being one of those absurd action figures who are hypertalented and who somehow manage to avoid the laws of physics.  X is calm because he's going to make the deal happen.

I was pleasantly surprised to see Sienna Miller in this movie.  You may know her as the stunning British blonde jilted by that cad, Jude Law.  She played an excellent romantic interest in &lt;u>Keen Eddie&lt;/u>, a well-done cop show that I loved, yet it didn't last beyond a season.

The script doesn't show any of the behind the scenes manipulations Mr. X contrives to orchestrate the close of the deal.  All it shows is a piecing together of what he set in motion.

This is a visually stunning movie.  It's filmed with a cinematic clarity and crispness that I totally love.  I do not like graininess, washed out colors or sloppy, boring shots.  Layer Cake's cinematography and production are superb.  The sets are well done, with colors that convey various hues at different points in the soundtrack, but overall the colors of the set give the film a kind of steely warmth; just enough cool edge to motivate but warm enough to help you believe that X has what it takes to rise above the bar in a game with rapidly escalating stakes.

There is one shot where X goes back to marshal up forces, including his accountant.  When he walks into the accountant's office, it is totally bare.  The shot of X's realization that his accountant has flipped on him is stunning: X crumples into a corner where creme carpet meets yellow walls and dark red leather square accents and dark wall paper.  The shot is wide and it conveys the scope of emptiness at this point: he is truly on his own and he has to make this work right.

The camera work is excellent throughout the movie and the editing ties the shots together well. Ben Davis and Jon Harris, directors of photography for this film, did a class piece of work with this film.  Their sense of composition, coloring and action is spot on.  Nothing ever seemed out of place in the frame.  The weakest shots are of the parking lot where one team of bad guys is holed up but that's because it's a gravel lot surrounded by chain link fence and dusty cars.  Every other shot is solid.

Layer Cake's soundtrack is another element of strength.  At three points in the movie (maybe four -- it might have happened once before I realized it was a part of the storytelling technique), the music comes up quite loudly.  The musical choices are great: edgy, driving, masculing yet also classic. Maybe a kind of upper middle class kind of feel to the groove.  The loud music signals a transition point in the movie.  It's a cool technique and though the music is loud, it isn't distracting and the technnique isn't cutesy.

Layer Cake is a great crime movie.  It's a British piece, so expect a different take on how the plat roles out.  Appreciate that the movie lets you do some thinking on your own, absorb the stunning cinematics and enjoy the story as it is told.