This is a majestic performance from beginning to end, and The Killers prove themselves well-worthy of the beautiful Royal Albert Hall setting.

I saw the band live at T in the Park earlier in the year, and while some elements of the performance are similar (the set list is almost identical, and some of the songs are introduced in the same way), the overall "feel" of the Royal Albert Hall gig is more refined and intimate.

Highlights, for me, are the extended Day and Age Tour versions of "For Reasons Unknown" and "Bling" (both of which drop down and take a lull while Brandon Flowers encourages some crowd interaction, before picking back up and exploding into their utterly climactic conclusions); the surprise-packages of "I Can't Stay" and "Sweet Talk" (the former in particular is performed stunningly), and the one-two smackdown of "Mr Brightside" and "All These Things That I've Done"... "Spaceman" and "Dustland Fairytale" are a pretty powerful combination too. Generally speaking, all of the tracks sound far better live than they do recorded; there's more energy and clarity to them and Flowers' voice sounds tremendous when it isn't needlessly roboticized as it sometimes is in their albums.

The only song that I feel somewhat drags is "The World We Live In", but that's more to do with the fact that the studio version was never a favourite of mine anyway, not because it's a sub-par performance -- if you like the song, you'll like the live version more than I did.

The DVD begins and ends with new versions of "Enterlude" and "Exitlude", and features bonus performances, including one of my personal favourites "Tranquilize" from the Oxegen festival. In terms of bonus features it's a bit sparse; there's a nice little Behind The Scenes documentary which is worth watching, but that's really about it... The quality of the primary content renders this irrelevant anyway.

Speaking of quality, in terms of production and sound -- top notch. My only criticism - and it's a minor one - is that I'd like the crowd noise to have been brought into the foreground just a notch more for certain songs such as "Mr Brightside". Other than that, the balance is pretty much perfect.

To put it succinctly; buy this DVD, it's one of the best.