Obviously the people who made this movie couldn't decide what they wanted to make: (1) a mostly family-friendly movie about a man who is oddly naive (and oddly likeable) who goes through life making ridiculous choices that get him in trouble and whose sisters, unlike the rest of the population, don't think much of him.  Or (2) an edgy, adult comedy about the quirky sex lives and weird family dynamics of several sisters.  Just as I would start almost enjoying one movie, the other one would creep in and take over and I would have to adjust to that movie.  The part about the brother was funny in places, though not really all that engaging, but then these sex things would all of a sudden pop up for no discernable reason and I'd find myself losing the plot while I pondered what the point was in putting in this or that subplot.  And it's not that there were so many sex scenes, either, or that they showed much more than just kissing most of the time.  Just one now and then, when you didn't expect it.  I kept getting the sisters confused with each other, also, so it was hard to keep track as to who was having sex with whom.  However, I'm pretty confident that one brother-in-law was having some fun while he was supposed to be in a meeting (this one included some nudity), one sister is bi-sexual and possibly cheating on her lesbian live-in (two of the sisters looked a lot alike, so I had trouble knowing who I was seeing sometimes) and so on and so forth.  I got tired of trying to keep track of what was going on and realized that I didn't care how it ended.  I figured the brother would come out alright.  In spite of the title, he was the only one in the family with any brain cells, so far as I could see, and that is NOT a compliment to him or his family.  And I figured the sisters would either wake up to the fact that he's smarter than they are, or they wouldn't and I really didn't care which.  There was also some profanity, which nearly always turns me off, especially if there isn't any real reason for it.  If all this sounds intriguing to you; rent it or wait till you can get it a lot cheaper, but my advice is, skip it.