This movie is most effective and most realistic because it contains no music.  It seems more like a documentary and there is melodramatics or big emotional scenes.  It is all shown in a subtle and laidback manner.  We watch it as if we are actually there and experience it in the same way the characters in the movie does.  The film simply is a moral tale about the dehumanizing effects of rape.  Jennifer Hill is a humane, quiet and kind woman.  However, after she is raped, she is no longer the same person.  There are a few interesting notes, after she is raped, she wears clothing that covers her entire body except for a scene where she lays on a hanging bed but otherwise, she is fully dressed throughout the second part even when she kills her attackers.  She seems to be more aware of how tempting she was when she was scantily clad.  I have not read anywhere where this point is made.  She doesn't just recover over night.  You see her sit in her house alone and scared.  You get a close up of her eyes and you see her crawling for a few minutes after she is raped.  This is an extended scene.  We get a feel of her pain and suffering.  The camera watches her eyes, her body movements and you know she has been through the worst trauma ever.  You see her get scared and frightened when she sees the men on the boat again as they ride by.  She doesn't just instantly go to revenge.  She thinks about it and contemplates it.  Then finally after asking for forgiveness from God, she decides to take them out.  She is emotionless and cold as she does it.  She was not like that before she got raped but now she is.  This to me shows how the whole experience dehumanized her.  She lost her humanity.  The tranformation of her from a kindly, quiet woman to a cold-blooded killer is developed well and the reason is shown clearly.  The rape scenes show just how horrible it  for her.  I swear when you hear her scream and the camera goes to a close up of her screaming, you feel it with her.  You are there and it is devastating.  You feel so sorry for her and you want to just run in there and stop it but you can't.  It then takes a few minutes for you to realize you are only watching a movie.  You are able to understand why she reacts the way she does.  These men are three dimensional.  The main rapist has a wife and kid, the retarded kid works and he is passive and easily conned.  There are scenes that express the dangers of peer pressure as they mock him and make fun of him and even beat him up for not killing her.  I highly recommend it but I will admit it is very difficult to watch, the rape scenes made me cringe, cry and just almost break down.  I sometimes wanted to turn it off but I felt I had to watch it, to give myself a sense of reality and to know that life is ugly and this movie makes the point clearly.  I can tell you one thing if you see this movie, you will never forget it.