I just finished watching the 4-disk DVD version of this film.  I had seen it long ago, at a theater in Boston where they did it right: they took a break in the middle and everyone filed into the lobby for champagne and finger foods.  It holds up.
Much was made of the opening battle scenes in "Saving Private Ryan," but this film conveyed the confusion and horror of war quite as effectively, many years before.  Fans of "shaky cam" cinematography should note its effective use here.  
Once again I was spellbound by Natasha, and her transformation from child to mature woman; I doubt there will ever be another movie in which the actors actually grow, along with their characters, over its span.  
This is one film in which the DVD presentation of separate "scenes" mirrors the actual structure.  Many of the scenes are separate compositions in their own right, with their own music and tone.  Natasha's first ball, with its sweeping waltz music and swirling camerawork, is one example.
I will have to borrow my son's projection video unit to screen this again: even on a fairly large SONY Wega screen, you simply can't appreciate the scope and detail.
Aside from assorted glitches and awkward moments (and a certain understandable Russian jingoism), as other reviewers have noted there is one major flaw: the use of cinematic gimmicks that were never very effective and now seem dated as well.  Some of the techniques, such as the shaky cam, the crane shots, the endless sweeping pans with choreographed action at multiple levels, are very effective.  But generally the acting and directing was sufficient; it was unnecessary to glitz it up with multiple images, blue-screen tricks and so on.  In fact, now that computer-generated effects are so much more sophisticated, the power of this movie lies in the scenes that AREN'T done by special effects.  Some day, when I have a computer large enough to stuff this whole production into it, maybe I'll try producing a version with the more egregious gimmicks excised.  I bet it would be even more stunning.