I hardly ever compose and publish reviews of any sort around here...but due to the maligning of this movie by a number of other reviewers, I feel compelled to step in and speak a few words to counterbalance theirs, not to antagonise, but simply to give a review from the Orleans' side of the  river, if I may use the metaphor.
It is an irrefutable fact among nearly  all movie-goers that Braveheart set the standard by which all other epic  medieval war movies are judged. It was inevitable and unavoidable that  reviewers would not compare The Messenger to Braveheart. I, however,  believe that it is imperative to evaluate a movie on its own merit, not on  its comparison with Braveheart. I love Braveheart. I will always love  Braveheart. But I don't think it's fair to compare it with The Messenger.  Therefore I will try my best henceforth to avoid references to  Braveheart.
The Messenger's timing was unfortunate. NBC's Joan of Arc was  released barely half a year before, and The Messenger has therefore been  thought of by some as "oh, boy, another Joan of Arc movie". To  those who would speak thus, I would like to know whether you have seen both  and are therefore in any sort of position to even begin to condemn The  Messenger as an inferior or a repetitive movie. I, for one, have not seen  enough of NBC's film to make a judgement, so I will also refrain from  comparing these two films throughout the remainder of the review.
Now  that I have put forth a few important points to discourage prejudice, I  will discuss the merit of the film itself.
Where to begin, where to  begin.
As others before me have said (so I will not dwell on this point  too long), the movie is quite impressive visually. Thousands and thousands  of weapons, armour suits, mitres and other items of religious clothing, and  many other medieval garments were custom-made for this movie with an eye  toward period accuracy. I am not as well read as I desire to be on the  Hundred Years' War, but my impressions are that the costumes' and weapons'  historical realism is quite sound.
A lot of work went into the battle  choreography, obviously, and I was most impressed with Marshall Gilles de  Rais' well-coordinated use of a pair of morning stars in the battle to take  the Tourelles, a French citadel across the river from Orleans which the  English captured earlier in the campaign.
Speaking of the Tourelles, I  was very pleased with the portrayal of the siege and taking of the fortress  in this movie. Never before in a film have I seen a siege presented in such  detail. The cinematography and acting throughout that battle was  particularly impressive. One could almost feel the nervousness and even  fear of the English defenders as the French assailed the Tourelles' great  walls. They seemed so safe in their fortress, but once the French rallied  under Joan, who had recently recovered from an arrow wound, the English  knew this juggernaut posed a real threat to them. And when the outer walls  were breached, well, all who could retreated in fear into the Tourelles'  keep. But even there they were not safe from the staunch and resolute  French, and several of the Englishmen lost their cool during the  fight.
But I degress. I merely wish to relate the vividness of the siege  and the feeling that it was real, that those were real men fighting for  their lives, fighting for their freedom...or dominance.
Another  impressive bit about the siege was the number of primitive but interesting  defensive mechanisms the English used to protect themselves. Of greatest  note was the porcupine, a spring-loaded arrow launching battery that  simultaneously fired volleys of fifty or so arrows through murder holes in  the Tourelles keep's gate to discourage attack upon it.
But enough of  warfare and such, for there is so much more to this movie than  that.
Character development was absolutely wonderful. Aside from Joan,  Charles, Charles' mother-in-law Yolande D'Aragon, and The Conscience, the  characters of most import in this film were the French officers and  noblemen with whom Joan served. Each had a certain personality, certain  traits. There was Dunois, the battle-hardened and pessimistic lord who had  been holding Orleans together ere Joan's arrival. There was the Duke de  Alençon, the rich, roguish, and most gung-ho member of the French generals,  he who "always votes to attack." There was La Hire, the massive  Goliath of the French, who possessed the roudiest manner of all the  generals and was often reprimanded by Joan for cursing.
Joan herself was  brilliantly portrayed. I've never seen Milla Jovovich in anything else  before, so I had a wonderful first impression, having seen her in this  film. Joan's was a unique character, an interesting mix of child-like  naivety, firm assertiveness, and then downright aggression. In the heat of  battle she was a screaming banshee of a warrior, but when she is alone in  her cell after being captured by Bergundians and given to the English with  no one but herself, she becomes unsure, meek, even fearful. With all the  adrenaline during the battles, she has one clear objective and believes  that the means to reach that goal are justified by the goal itself. But  alone in her cell with The Conscience, she begins to question the ways she  has followed for the last two years, the ways of blood and steel. And  finally, with the help of The Conscience, she comes to realise her wrongs,  her immoralities, her flaws. Her transformations throughout the movie are  quite remarkable