"The Great Escape" is one of the all time great WW2 films.  Compared to such epic 'battle' films as "A Bridge Too Far" or "The Longest Day" it tells a smaller scale story, which allows a more subtle attempt at character portrayals without losing the sense of spirit and energy that characterizes the best war movies of that era.  The story, though condensed in time and complexity from Paul Brickhill's original book, is deftly told and holds the viewer throughout what is a fairly long film.  We are presented with a no doubt simplified but still engrossing idea of how POW escapes were planned and executed, followed by what almost seems a separate adventure film as 70 men in small groups make their separate ways across wartime Germany to wildly different fates.  The two halves are united by a thoroughly appealing group of mismatched characters- one gets the feel of the sort of bundled together bands of strangers who had to form a weird camaraderie in these camps if they were to get through.  Some of the great emerging stars of the 1960s are featured, not least Steve McQueen as the irreverent Hiltz.  Richard Attenborough does an excellent turn as the mastermind of the escape, just hinting at the exhaustion of a man who'd done this too many times.  There are too many to list, but check out the early Charles Bronson as a Polish RAF officer and tunneler.

That said, the DVD is only for those DVDophiles and techie fanatics obsessed with widescreen for its own sake, whose tastes seem to have hijacked the industry.  One ought not to be supportive of those companies unwilling to offer the fullscreen choice or to take care in their formatting decisions.  The problem is widespread but this film is one of the worst I've seen.  What a disappointment!  This film features few wide vistas and does not need such a narrow screen presentation, but it offers one so thin on the screen that even at 27 inches of TV one has to squint half the time.  Having half the screen black is NOT desirable, especially when augmented by tiny actors!  ALL DVDs should have both formats, or at least a better aspect ratio, unless I am the last person in North America without a 16x9 home theatre.  It costs the studios NOTHING to make the concession, as evidenced by those discs which do have full-screen or a more balanced aspect.  
Come on corporate hacks!  Make use of all that data storage capacity and widen your customer base as a result.  Until that happens, everyone else can stick to the VHS version.  It is SUPERB and loses nothing whatsoever in translation.  See the film full size and marvel at its story and the zest with which its makers told it.