This series has helped me learn something about myself.  Didn't even realize it before but I am sooooo tired of hospital-TV, police-TV, lawyer-TV, and even worse....police/lawyer-TV, particulaly the ones with all the initials in the titles.  Seriously, how many years of SVU's, CI's, CSI's, etc. can we handle?  Have mercy for pete's sake!  Most are just re-workings of the same plots.  The main difference these days is we've decided it's OK to show more gruesome shots of the murder victim and give us more "titilating?" details of sexual trauma.

With Leverage, we get an intellectually creative series of self-contained story lines each with an over-arching theme relating to each character's personality, history and special talents.  Each spisode is a really fun way to spend an hour.

Would that there were a group of people like the Leverage team.  We can overlook the logically "too good to be true" way in which they amass their personal fortunes and become, thus, able to do their good deeds with true altruism.  It's a bit of a stretch to buy that Hardison manages to open brokerage accounts for each of the team, in Europe no less, thus taking advantage of the time difference (Huh?), deposit sufficient funds in each to meet margin requirements, then sell short enough shares of stock in the company the team is "taking down" to produce a windfall of $34 MILLION.....each! (Maybe the SEC had all their resources tied up with their bang-up investigation of Bernie Madoff?  No?  Oh that's right....they were "investigating" all those porn sites.)
Regardless, suspend reality all you want and just have fun.

The only criticism I can offer is to the people in charge of creating the commentaries.  Please, guys, curb the self-serving stuff and tell us about the episode you're commenting on. Better yet, bring the stars in to contribute their unique takes on what happened during filming etc.  After the first couple of commentaries, I just stopped clicking the "ON" button to include them.  You miss the whole episode sound, none at all gets through, and we gain nothing valuable or even interesting in listening to you all pat yourselves and each other on the back.