When I saw this film for the first time my Mom and I both busted out laughing hysterically and after getting the DVD and watching it with an opened mind from start to finish, I have to say that this film is definitely relevant for today especially, with the coming election this November. "Primary Colors" is a film that showcases one Senator's long road to the White House and the many pros and cons behind an unforgettable campaign. Based on the Novel that chronicles the bitter secrets of the Bill Clinton era and what happens on the campaign trail, you begin to see just how far people will go to paint the perfect picture of a presidential candidate. As well as, those who will stop at nothing and risk everything to expose the truth behind the dark facade of an aspiring leader of the free world. From tapping cell phone conversations, digging up the dirt on inappropriate relationships to proving that a presidential candidate is not the father of his babysitter's child. These are the kinds of ill moral issues that often go unnoticed by the public when choosing a truly respectable person for president.
  Aside from all the dirt and outrageous ploys that go on behind the scenes with desperate and sometimes unorthodox campaign managers and volunteers, the film's actors serve to tell a very compelling story about what lies beneath the deceptively clean cut and celebrity persona of a willing presidential candidate. John Travolta gives an Academy Award winning performance as a cocky and narcissistic smooth operating Bill Clinton AKA "Governor Jack Stanton." And Billy Bob Thornton has his memorable moments on camera using insanely funny metaphors behind closed doors to protect his boss's eroding credibility in the mist of public scandals and other political calamities that often plague the campaign. Amongst everyone else who is involved in cleaning up after a sloppy Governor's mess, Kathy Bates on the other hand will go to any lengths to expose the truth about why someone like Governor Stanton should not become president. Even if it means threatening to blow a man's family jules off with an unloaded gun.
  With all the dark humor and political nonsense aside, this film's story serves to shed light behind a very powerful man's political veil and the kind of desperate measures that people will take to ensure the success of a political victory even if it means destroying one's reputation to get at the truth behind an entire curtain of lies and deception. In the end, before you go to the polls and vote for the next president, "Primary Colors" leaves you with one important message about a presidential candidate, as Rupert Thorne in "Batman the animated series" once said, "The Brighter the picture, the darker the Negative."