Charming and sweet is Peter Hedges, dramedy, Dan in Real Life. Steve Carell as Dan Burns, the widowed father of three daughters, advice columnist, and brother and son, will have you grinning from ear to ear.

Dan, exasperated with the various stages of his children's growing pains, heads to New Hampshire (from New Jersey), with daughter's in tow, for an annual weekend family reunion. Lilly the youngest, not taken seriously in general by her father, because of her age, has to point out to Dan that she is capable of forming her own opinions; she is after all in the 4th grade. Jane, the oldest, mature, and levelheaded is a licensed driver, yet not allowed behind the wheel of a car, because, as Dan rationalizes, it keeps her alive. Passionate Cara, the middle child, not allowed to date for 2 more years has fallen in "love" (quotes by Dan), with a boy after knowing him for only 3 days. Dan's inability to accept and allow the natural progression of the girl's, and his own maturity is in contradiction to his doling out of sound advice to his readers with similar issues daily.

Shortly after arriving in New Hampshire, Dan's mother (Dianne Weist) sends him on an errand into town to the local Bait and Books shop. While at the shop, he meets the beautiful Marie (Juliette Binoche). The two connect, and Dan's disappointment to learn that she has a boyfriend, does not stop him from getting her number. Retuning home, already in love, he shares his excitement of meeting someone with his family. Before he can provide full details, he learns that Marie is a guest at the family reunion, the new girlfriend of his younger brother Mitch (Dane Cook). On introduction, the two act as if they have never met. Only the audience is aware of the couple's fumbling discomfort.

The rest of the weekend contains scenes that include an amusing, unavoidable shower scene with Dan and Marie and a romantic serenade from the two brothers, to the one they both love. How this all comes together, is with flawless heart tugging appeal. The whole cast shines; especially Dane Cook and Juliette Binoche as the love weary Marie. Dan Burns, lacking in personality as many of Carell's characters are, never becomes annoying. In a large part, because of the actor's ability to use understated physical expression as a large part of his craft. With it, he is able to evoke empathy in his audiences. This is his charm as an actor, and makes him one of my favorites.

This may not be a film that you will want to rush to the theater to see, but it is one you will not want to miss. Whenever you do see it, prepare to be charmed!