Facts first: Secret Window is based - loosely - on a novella by Stephen King. I've never read the book, but I did love the movie, and let me tell you why.

Secret Window is about a writer by the name of Morton Rainey (played brilliantly as usual by Johnny Depp) who is in the middle of a nasty divorce from his wife Amy (Maria Bello). Mort suffers from a bad case of writer's block, probably caused more by the fact that he caught Amy with Ted Milner (Timothy Hutton) than anything else. He lives in an isolated cabin in the middle of the woods a good few miles from the nearest town, and is in such a mess that he can't even bring himself to sign the divorce papers.

Enter John Shooter (played with quiet, menacing conviction by John Turturro), a Mississippi farmer who shows up on Mort's doorstep with an accusation of plagiarism. Turturro is great, but perhaps a tad underused in this film. His Southern drawl adds a strange element of creepiness to his performance here, and his most memorable line is, "I'll burn your life and everyone in it like a cornfield in a high wind", which despite its almost cliched threat, is delivered convincingly enough for me to have rated this movie as deserving of five stars.

Mort's life proceeds to descend into absolute chaos. His dog is killed, an old man from town is killed, his private detective is killed...the suspense is nail-biting. David Koepp's directing is fantastic, and upheld nicely by Fred Murphy's moody cinematography and Philip Glass's appropriately menacing score.

The ending in particular was a work of master genius, and as Mort says numerous times, the ending is the most important part of the story. As a writer myself, I tend to agree, and this one does not disappoint. I personally am not a big fan of happy endings, and if you're anything like me, you'll absolutely adore this one. It took my breath away.

Call me biased, but I found Secret Window to be an excellently crafted and dramatic piece. The script calls for Depp to be alone most of the time, and he carries it off marvellously with a certain claustrophobic twitchiness. Mort's quirks and tics speak volumes about Depp's ability as an actor: the character is confused, driven, horrified, furious and depressed, and sometimes more than one of these at any given moment. Worse yet, Depp can't hide from his pretty face: all the things about Mort's appearance that should turn anyone in their right mind off - wild blond-streaked hair with dark roots, a filthy, ratty bathrobe, glasses, even braces - only serve to accentuate the perfection of one of Hollywood's most intriguing actors.

Go see this movie, especially if you hate happy endings. The plot won't disappoint you, the score is good, and there are some genuinely thrilling parts. If you find the plot growing predictable, however, keep your eye on Depp as he turns increasingly inventive and morbidly comic, and watch for details, like what Mort has half-open on his coffee table.

The bottom line: the strength of Depp's performance alone makes Secret Window worthwhile to watch.

Me? I bought the damn DVD.