Stanley Kubrick, in this film, apparently deals with two problems by cutting the film in two separate parts, and yet he only deals with one problem that goes beyond the two parts and reunifies the film. In the first part he gives us a precise, accurate and nearly sickening description of the training of a Marine in the US. This training has to do with brainwashing, physical training and ideological conditioning. The objective is not to produce robots, but Marines who are so well conditioned that killing is their first reflex in a war situation. « Born to kill » as they say. This first part leads to a drama because in the mass of new recruits, there is, not a rotten apple, but one who cannot stand the brainwashing, because he cannot erase some of his old psychological attachments. His unconscuious reacts against the brainwashing and turns the brainwashing against the trainer and against the owner of this unconscious : to kill becomes to settle accounts (in vengeance) and to commit suicide. In the second part,  Kubrick gives us a vision of the Tet offensive in 1968, hence of the dramatic turning point of the Vietnam War that will eventually mean the American defeat. There we find again some of the characters of the first part and a few others and Kubrick describes how the killing instinct of these Marines has become the only survival strategy they have. They can survive and even remain sane because they kill, blindly and without thinking. Kubrick even goes further by showing that this leads to deranged personalities. One case is only quoted, but the main hero is confronted, right at the end, no longer with the blind reflex, but with the necessity to kill in order to respect some deep belief he has (suffering is not justified on a moral level) and the necessity to kill willingly, out of a conscious resolution. This leads to two possibilities : either the Marine is an animal and he will let the wounded person die, hence suffer, thus showing that he has no more moral values, or he will kill just as if it were an ordinary and simple action like drinking, eating or anything else, thus showing that he has no more moral values, no sense of perspective. And that's where the film gets its unity : either the Marine has become a robot for whom killing is as simple as breathing, or the conditioning is in contradiction with ethical values, making the reflex difficult if not impossible. Killing becomes then a regressive attitude and the film can end up on Disneyland famous song : M.I.C.K.E.Y.M.O.U.S.E. And this last image of Marines coming back from their exterminating mission for the night and singing that song, shows how deep war can make people sink. The last scene is poignant and revealing. A masterpiece. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.