I found myself trying to like this film but not quite managing it. Part of the problem for me is: John Lennon was one of the most charismatic human beings I have ever run across in the public sphere. Friends and acquaintances confirm that even as a teen, Lennon was the one who drew everyone's attention in any given room. He was the one you couldn't keep your eyes off. Try BEING such a person for the silver screen. That's a tall order for a young actor, Aaron Johnson in this case, to pull off. And I don't believe he does pull it off. Read a biography of John Lennon or the Beatles, and in one's imagination it all seems so magical. Stick a bunch of teens trying to impersonate them in front of a movie camera and suddenly it all seems so mundane. Inwardly I was cheering on the actors, wanting them to make Lennon's youth come alive, but it didn't happen. I just saw a bunch of young actors pretending they were the Quarry Men. Ho-hum. Perhaps it's that we baby boomers are so familiar with the real-like charisma of Lennon in his 20s and 30s that we expect to see it all in some incipient form even in a young actor playing him. It may be unrealistic on our part. Nonetheless...

Dramatic license revoked: It's a post-funeral house-gathering. Paul makes some innocuous remark about John's late mother. John takes it the wrong way, and publically head-butts Paul. The two then dissolve in tears (and Paul's blood) in each others' arms, in recognition of each's maternal loss. This may go over well with viewers unaware that no such thing ever happened. I just bristled. As if the story of John Lennon and the Beatles is so lacking in drama that it has to be contrived.

And what of the climactic scene of the QuarryMen recording `In Spite of the Danger'? One: It's  a rather lame folkie-sounding song to spotlight. Two: It was a one-off Paul and George composition, with no Lennon content. Very deflating for those with some knowledge of John's life.

Something else that bothered me was the whole insistence on telling this `origins' story for the umpteenth time. I've always felt strongly, as did Lennon, that "the music is the thing" when it comes to the Beatles. In fact, the proto-Beatles didn't make much music worth more than a listen or two during their pre-Ringo era of 1957-1962. It was a necessary stage in their development, obviously, but music-wise it's strictly an archeological dig. Their real heyday begins in late 1962 and extends to at least early 1970. I say `at least' because by 1970 the Beatles had become each Beatle going solo and continuing to make great music--if only sporadically. This incredibly rich and fascinating stage--easily re-imagined as the Beatles' final glorious era--somehow has been demoted and even forced to play second banana to the peripherals of the 1960s such as the Yellow Submarine movie or the Anthology sets that even Paul joked were mostly toxic waste. Instead, why not take the very best of John, Paul, George and Ringo, arrange it in Beatles format--surely as nature intended--and let `the Beatles' carry on in the more conceptual form the group had often assumed when only one or two Beatles participated on a given track (`Yesterday', `Julia', `Love You To' and so forth).