The mighty Asoka served as governor of two large Indian provinces in the third century B.C., both of them important seats of Buddhism. With a ruthlessness equal to that of his grandfather, Chandragupta, he set out to enlarge the kingdom he had inherited (in a bloody bid for the throne against the rightful king, his brother). In the ninth year of his reign, Asoka conquered the state of Kalinga in a grim and savage slaughter. "In that conquest," he said,"150,000 were killed or maimed, but I did not exult like a conquerer..." Instead, he was consumed by remorse and revulsion at the horror of war. The carnage of Kalinga found the conquering hero looking for a new meaning in life. The emperor ultimately embraced Buddhism - a new Asoka was born - and he used the machinery of his vast empire to spread the teachings of compassion and non-violence far beyond India...
This is what I knew of Asoka from my readings of Buddhism. Santosh Sivan's radiant film ends on the bloody battlefields of Kalinga, but need not (as one reviewer said) have gone even ten minutes longer. The depth of Asoka's regret and change are evident in his anguished features - and upon the agony-twisted face of Shahrukh Khan - as he kneels among the carnage he has wrought. One needn't be versed in Buddhist history - or much history at all - to understand this incredible transformation.
How much of this cinematic tale is drawn from historical fact anyway? Who cares as you are drawn into this grand Shakespearean take on a spiritual legend? And that's what it is, folks - positively Shakespearean. I wasn't sure that I liked the film until I had watched it a little longer, finding myself pulled deeper and deeper into the complications of the plot. Where else have we seen characters assuming other identities and making drastic turns when they believe their true love has died?
I've always been enthralled by cinematic sword fights, and ASOKA does not disappoint. He's good from the very beginning, but not too good to occasionally be the source of a few laughs. Later, when he finally demonstrates his skills as a warrior - and in the final bloody scenes as "Evil Asoka" - his fierceness is exhilirating! Even more impressive, however, was the battlefield appearance of the main female character, Kaurwaki (Kareena Kapoor). Utterly beautiful and baaaaaaaaaad on her white horse, she demonstrates that - lineage be damned - she truly does possess warrior blood.
As Mira Nair's MISSISSIPPI MASALA was the only "Indian" film I had ever seen, I wasn't really prepared for characters to suddenly burst out into song. Say hello to "Bollywood"! - but it barely seemed distracting as the tale unfurled. As it was, such scenes only occurred about four times - and in the appropriate places (not unlike the emotive musical interludes in American films and television which help to sell a few million copies of the soundtrack).
The only minor annoyance in the version I saw was that the subtitles were often difficult to read in the more brightly-lit scenes (while the Widescreen provided ample empty space below for them to be placed).
Overall, I would consider ASOKA a worthwhile spiritual journey along the same lines as THE BURMESE HARP and IKIRU, but told as a Shakespearean opera with lots of awesome > &lt; kicking.