It's at moments like these that I thank God I'm alive and living in the 21st century!  Who would have ever thought, in a million years, that they could EVER make F. W. Murnau's NOSFERATU look like it was shot YESTERDAY!  Thank you gods of modern restoration technology for the absolute thrill of seeing a silent classic I've adored all my film loving life in a way I never thought possible!  It is an astonishing experience to see NOSFERATU so clean, clear and pristine! Add to that the original score in 5.1 surround, and you have a true cinema lover's definition of Nirvana. I nearly wept with joy watching this! My mouth was agape in wonder and disbelief! Every 5 seconds I kept saying, "I don't believe this! LOOK AT THIS!" My dear fellow movie lovers...trying to explain HOW BEAUTIFUL...HOW AMAZING this restoration truly is...well...it just can not be expressed in mere words! YOU HAVE TO SEE IT!!! It is an accomplishment of epic mind boggling proportions! IT LOOKS BRAND NEW!!!! When I think of how Bram Stoker's widow wanted all prints destroyed...not to mention all the various crappy public domain versions available...I was sure this would be one of those silent film classics that would always look like a scratchy, old, beat up mess.  And even THEN, it STILL was amazing! Now...be still my heart!! Dracula truly has risen from the grave with fresh new virgin sprocket blood and he will now live forever...beautifully ugly, cinematically young and vibrant!  The extras are fun too...especially the excerpts from Murnau's other films...scenes that really show what a true genius he was...years ahead of his time...and still unmatched in originality, vision and brilliance! (And what a difference seeing it at 18 frames a second makes! It's a whole new movie with performances that no longer have that typical sped up feel and exaggerated silent movie overacting.) This DVD set is one for the ages!  Thank you Kino for making my life all the more sweeter by restoring yet another cinematic silent masterpiece.  In a word..."Wow!" Not to be missed.