I was 10 years old when this film aired back in 1983, and I was afraid to watch it.  I think it aired at 9pm Eastern, which was my bedtime at that age anyway, but even if I could stay up to watch it, I wouldn't.  As a 10 year old, nuclear war was something that really scared me.

I'm 32 now, and I was surprised to see this released on DVD.  By now, my fear of the film had long since turned to fascination, and I decided to pick it up.  I'd wondered how the characters in the film could've survived, and how the film could've ended.  I was expecting the film to be a bit more subdued than today's television, and to be a bit dated as well (most things from the 80's are).  As it turns out, I was wrong on both counts.

If you're reading this, you probably already know the plot: in a nutshell, the USSR and USA get into a nuclear war, and the "lucky" survivors have to live (or try to live) in the aftermath.  While the film is not exactly a gore-fest, it is a little graphic, and is definitely unsettling.  One of the things I was wondering as I was watching the film was how they were going to manage all of the characters they were introducing before the missiles came.  They answer: they DON'T manage all those characters afterwards.  Read into that what you will.

This is definitely a "What would I do in this situation?" kind of film.  The effects are decent by 1980's standards (but dated by today's), and the film is well-acted, especially by Steve Guttenberg, who really surprised me.  It starts off a bit slow, but I'm assuming that's done to develop character and get you to care about these people before all hell breaks loose.

I'm really glad I didn't watch this when I was 10.

A few side notes: for the life of me, I couldn't place where I'd seen the bike-riding blond fiancee guy before, but then it hit me: it's the same actor who played the young Clark Kent in "Superman: The Movie" (Jeff East).  Also, I've read that Ben Stein was critical of this film when it came out.  For those of you who don't know, Ben Stein is an actor, famous for his role as the droll teacher in "Ferris Bueler's Day Off" ("Bueler...Bueler...Bueler...").  He also did some commercials for "Clear Eyes" eye drops, hosted his own show called "Win Ben Stein's Money", and was a speechwriter for Richard Nixon.  Stein was also critical of Mark Felt when it was revealed that Felt was "Deep Throat".  Stein defended Nixon, say that, even though Nixon was a liar, at least he wasn't a liar and drug addict like John F. Kennedy, or a liar and war-starter like Lyndon Johnson, etc.  He also criticized Felt in American Spectator, saying that he looked like a Nazi war criminal.  Stein feels that Nixon's authorization of the Watergate break-in and subsequent involvement in the cover-up should not have been exposed.  This should tell you a little bit about Ben Stein.

Anyway, even though Ben doesn't recommend this film, I do.  In fact, I recommend watching this film WITH Ben Stein, if you can somehow pull it off.

One last thing: the last chapter on the DVD is entitled "Hope".  Personally, it's the last word I would've used.  Where the hope was in that last scene, I couldn't tell you.