Not a typical action flick because, remarkably, there's also a fully-conceived narrative being told; a sublime study of character that I normally associate with more cerebral productions.

Tells the story of Luke Wright, former cop who turned in a bunch of dirty cops on the take - his buddies. Having been excised from the fraternal order as part of the pyrrhic bargain, he drifted, finally finding work as journeyman cage fighter. It's not a great life, but it's one that he finds honor in living. Along with his wife, he's doing okay. Until he accidentally puts out the light of a glass-jawed opponent. An opponent who was 'supposed' to win.

With so much money on the line, the muckers who arrange such things are understandably pissed. Worse, those weren't the heaviest hitters who wagered on the rigged match. The Russian Mafia isn't known for losing money with grace. The penalty for his inadvertent win - murdering his wife. And in true twisted fashion, they leave him breathing. It's explained that he's on their forever-crap list, they'll be watching him for the rest of his life. If he makes any connection, anything other than the most casual of contact with another human being, they're going to murder that person too. Luke is branded a loner now and for as long as his heart continues its miserable beat. This isn't life - it's existence.

His own death would be a release. That's the sick mentality of the ultimate mob punishment - you're forced to go on while everything you care about, or even hope to care about, is utterly ground underfoot.

On the other side of the world, a young math prodigy has been discovered. Unfortunately for her that immense talent has been identified by one of the Chinese Triads; organized crime families who have been a part of that culture longer than many countries in the world have existed. One mob boss detests computers and the inherent security flaws that they leave open, and has decided he will have the young girl as his own private human calculator. Transportable, malleable and completely coercible - young Mai is now a slave to the gangsters. And just like Luke, is no longer living, but simpy existing.

Fate brings these two together, each discovering that suffering on the run is preferable to the day-to-day hell living apart. As the pair fight off the gathering dark forces of dirty cops, rotten government and brutal gangsters - the odd team determine that they will be free, one way or another.

Adrenaline pumping rush of a movie with Jason Statham once again dominating the action landscape. There is no other performer in his weight class - movie star heavyweight. The really scary part is that he seems to be hitting his stride. Can you imagine what the next five, maybe ten years will bring?

Young actress Catherine Chan, as Mei, happily surprised. It's rare to find an actress of that age who can actually act. Despite the plethora of wannabe child performers who are annoyingly pretentious and frighteningly older than than their chronological age - very few can believably act; to become the person of the role and transmit the essence of the character through to us, the audience. Again, props to Director Boaz Yakin for his insight in selecting her. The man has a new fan.

As an aside, absolutely loved that Yakin did not open the film with the tiresome checklist of names and too-clever CGI visual titles. Cutting to the chase, we're instantly thrown into the nightmare of Luke and Mai's existence. Truly enjoy it when a filmmaker steps outside the box without crushing it. Out-bleeping-standing. Thank you.

One of the better roles Statham has executed. And given the repertoire of films already under his cinched six-pack fitted belt, I'm already looking forward to more.

No question a solid four+ stars. If you're an action fan - def five pointers.