When people look back at great films, things that tend to stick with people, such as a great story/script that makes one think, and even debate pre conceived notions in their heads, cinematography that is breathtaking, a film that is arragned to have both dialouge and action, not to mention a soundtrack that helps move a move along, make the film into a classic if done correctly. To live and die in LA delivers on all accounts.

  This film is as intense as you can get, but doesnt overwhelm. The story has no sympathetic characters, and shows the self destruction of its lead character Richard Chance(William Peterson) close up, as he becomes little different than the criminal Rick Masters(William DaFoe), and it shows the almost unwilling, and also coming undone of Chances new Partner, John Vukovich(John Pankow), be caught up in the downward spiral that Chance' life has become. Another highlight is supporting actor, Dean Stockwells role as a slick LA lawyer, working for Masters, but also giving advice to the by then way over his head Vukovich.

  Not to give away any spoilers, the movie breaks up many cliches one usually sees in cop films, with failures to execute plans in a competent manner from both the law enforcement and criminal ends.

  Also, director  Willam Friedkin, whose carrer in terms of quality had been on a downward path for some time, went back to the top in terms of quality(though his return would sadly be short lived with a series of bland films afterwards). The pacing of the story was perfect, and the cinematography was nothing short of artistic. As other reviewers have mentioned, the film showed the gritty side of LA, with the smog drenched orange sun shineing down on an industrial wasteland. Also the soundtrack must be mentioned. While Wang Chung later became the butt of many jokes, they shined on this soundtrack, with the must obviously from the 80s, but still with a timeless quality as well that moves the story along.

  Lastly, it is obvious that Friedkin on this film was heavily influenced by fellow director(and creator of Miami Vice) Michael Mann, in fact, Michael Mann sued, albiet unsucessfully,  Friedkin because the story and direction was so similar to that of Manns on Miami Vice, but again, it only elevates this film.

  PS Anyone who likes To Live and Die in LA should also check out Michal Manns 1986 film, Manhunter, the first and many say the best of the Hannibal Lector films, and also starring William Peterson.