First, the treatment of the subject from a visual perspective was quite well done - like the food network on Japanese acid. 2 solid, o-toro stars for that. As to the rest...

Jiro is an exercise in ego-inflation for a man who has sacrificed his friends, family and customers to his art...and in the process has created a unique reputation as a Sushi Master (Taisho), and Shokunin (Artisan) extraordinaire.

Jiro is the ultimate "eye" and "mind-candy" for pretentious westerners, and high-end, fawning Japanese who all are keenly aware that they prefer status over Omotenashi (hospitality) Spirit...over Jingi (chivalrous behavior) and essentially the most basic form of etiquette. In Jiro's world, he doesn't exist to serve, or even connect to his customers. Rather, they exist for him. And not in the Howard Roark ("I have clients in order to build") sort of way. Jiro is at the end of the day, a one-track and one-trick pony, master of a stifling, uncomfortable, patriarchal, dictatorial environment which Gai Jin would naturally worship...unless they understood Japan from the inside out.

A "Mr. Miyagi" for a new generation of Americans...finally, they realize...sushi isn't a spicy tuna handroll...NO...it's a 65 dollar bite size piece of tuna served by a pissed off 83 year old man! I look forward to the "Jiro-style" copycats which will soon open all over New York and LA. (aside from the ones that have or already exist - Nozawa, Urasawa, etc)

The directors here missed the mark in offering zero criticism, or even a critical eye on Jiro. At least not intentionally. Bottom line, this is a glossy, obsequious commercial for a man who is not deserving of half the praise being showered on him. My sense is that Jiro has never learned the concept of proportionality and neither have the directors of this documentary. You can see it in the aesthetics of his restaurant, the way he treats his children...his friends...and life itself - and in the wonderful cinematography that screams "wow - shiny happy sushi!" to the audience.

Jiro is a quite brutal man in many way, brutal to himself and others all for the sake of that singular aspect of the Samurai spirit (Kaizen) that he clings to, while disregarding all the rest. One just need look at his son's faces to recognize the mess that this man has made of their self-esteem and essentially - their lives. And to his wife...oh...we never get to meet her but we can imagine can't we. Jiro follows one half of Zen Buddhist Shunryu Suzuki's admonition about "burning oneself up" in one's career but he has forgotten or ignored the rest. If you're familiar with the story of Musashi...what Jiro needs is a monk to hang him from a tree for 3 days or so (well not now, but about 40 years ago).

Not for the sake of humility - no. I can admire a perfectionist and a great artisan/master in any craft. Jiro is a machine who would be the ultimate work of art (and this is what I initially thought) if not for the fact that he has burned up those around him to fuel his own internal fire. He is a man who sacrifices others to himself, and along the way lost something so essential to Japan, to food, to the culinary experience that I am afraid that he is the opposite of what these filmmakers strived to illuminate - that is...Jiro is not a hero. And while he does dream sushi, he does not understand the connection between a wonderful meal, and life itself. He only understands the single act of eating, tasting and then...get the f-out. He is, at the end of the day, a performer first...and a chef second. And so this film was the perfect medium to see Jiro in all his glory, if you can call it that.

The most telling scene for me was the unacceptably rude and humiliating treatment received by a far-away visitor to the restaurant - by Jiro's son, no less. That moment summed up the whole film for me. The anger and pain within Jiro's son, along with false PRIDE in essentially another man's life and accomplishments transmitted as a slap in the face to an eager patron...what a ruin of an existence...more than living in a shadow..."living within the shadow" is more like it...

Next time you're in Japan...go to the Tsukiji fish market, and have an unforgettable 35-60 omakase lunch and leave Jiro, his biographers and friends to their 600 dollar a head experience.

Bottom line - this film is lacking significant objectivity, and will leave you mesmerized by the beauty of Jiro's work. And if you're a little sharp, it will also leave you horrified at the means with which he achieves it.