Most of the reviews under this product are reviews of the film, not of the soundtrack. This is another thing that bothers me about some reviewers on amazon, along with people who complain about shipping in a review (seller comments are appropriate in a review sometimes, but only in how they relate directly to the product), and people who turn the comment option into a back and forth personal fight blog.

Anyway, review the product, in this case the soundtrack not the film...

After that sound-off, I'd like to say that this is a finely put together soundtrack. It is true to the music and versions actually in the film as a soundtrack should be, i.e It has the versions played in the film, and it includes some of the songs by other musicians that also were played in the film, e.g. Booker T. Laury's version of the classic Big Legged Woman ("Beg Legged Woman") written by Champion Jack Dupree / Israel Tolbert and popularized by Jimmy Reed and other blues greats, Valerie Wellington on Whole Lotta Shakin,' it even has the mix of Crazy Arms with Lewis and Quaid. It also begins with Great Balls of Fire as played in the movie and ends with the album version. It also has songs that were in the movie that Lewis is not known for doing but appeared in the sound track, like Jackin Brenston and the Delta Cats doing Rocket 88.

I LOVE the fact that they are very true to the film especially by using the recorded version of Lucky Old Sun that appears in the film - Lewis recorded several versions, and this is my FAVORITE... ...in the movie. In the others he sings the classic lyrics, in this one he adds a little personal touches, such as "Wash Jerry Lee's troubles away" instead of my troubles."

This album gets 4 stars instead of 5 though because it is short and could be longer - there were more songs in the film both by Jerry and especially by other musicians. One of the Lewis songs missing is his version of Big Legged Woman which I'm pretty sure was also in the film, and tons of songs by other musicians, though it does highlight some of the good ones. Also, I like how the album is almost chronological and it works that way, but it's off especially at the end, for instance Lucky Old Sun appears in the film before Wild One (which is the last song in the film). Perhaps they thought album-wise it would flow better the way they did it. This is a smaller complaint and much more subjective, but the album should have been longer, and, the cover is ridiculous... terrible font and a silly shot of Quaid as a young Jerry Lee that looks nothing like Lewis, even a young Lewis. I don't know if they were trying to market to a younger crowd, or what, but the artwork in general is terrible.

Anyway, aside from the shortness of the slbum, it's fantastic.