As with every book to film Stanley Kubrick has touched, he makes it his own. That being said, A Clockwork Orange improved on some of this classic Burgess novel and destroyed other aspects of it. Not to be too nitpicky of this fine movie, it truly is one of Kubrick's best.

The story is very much about the anti-hero of Alex de Large, a hoodlum for lack of a better word. He and his roaming street gang of droogs rob, rape, and terrorize the people of London nightly with cane in hand and Beethoven in their ears.

On one such night, Alex and his droogies attempt a robbery on a health clinic owner's house, with disastrous results. The lady is killed in the attack and Alex is left to take full blame. After a brief stint in prison, he is released to the custody of a doctor with a procedure to eliminate violence from Alex's brain. The torturous treatments leave him totally unequipped to deal with any sort of violent behavior, even in the face of his former droogs seeking revenge.

As complex as the story is, it still doesn't go into the full depth of the underlying story of government control of free-will the book focused on. The movie plays more to the shock factor. Not saying this is a bad movie because of that, quite the opposite. Kubrick's use of color, shape, and music gives us such an engrossing film it's hard to take your eyes off of it even during the vilest of "horrorshows". This movie should not be placed side by side with the novel it's based on, in fact, I would even say forgo the book until you have seen the movie.

Please note: the movie only goes as far as the 21st chapter of the Burgess novel. The 22nd chapter was released later in the newer printings of the book. This should be reason enough to watch the movie first, as the last chapter of the book is important to Burgess' true vision of the characters, but it does make the movie seem a little short of what it could have been, and kills all the speculation of events following the film, and that is an injustice to this remarkable film.

This is one of my top 5 movies of all time, but with movies of this shocking nature, you either love it or hate it.