I LOVE this movie (and I'm not biased because Seann W. Scott and Amanda Detmer are in it.) I think this is SO underappreciated.
You see, not only are they not conforming to the typical Teen Horror genre (repeated in just about every review) but they are taking what COULD have been and turning it around.
EX: Characters. Typical personas. Just look at how they put a spin on the classic characters.
THE LONER GIRL ("Clear") was pretty much dubbed as one of those "misunderstood starving artists with a troubled past." But then you see that there's more to her than the dark cloathes, the VERY BAD (sorry) art and the boards on her windows. She's pretty spicy, if you ask me.
THE BLONDE BIMBO ("Terry") hardly speaks, simply looks pretty and makes out with her boyfriend. But in her final speech, you think, "Omg, she's pretty mature." Makes you sad when the bus smashes her to bits! NOT!
THE GEEK (My personal fave--Billy!) well, is a geek, and you love him, admit it (On second thought--no, he's MINE!) And while he's really kiddish, it's good to see a kid in a teen flick that DOESN'T have their own car, wear kahkis and have an annoying cell/palm pilote.
THE ANNOYING BEST FRIEND ("Tod") was one other character I couldn't get enough. He was so cute, it was really funny to see best friends that fought all the time.
THE JERKY JOCK ("Carter") was probably the most exhaggerated character, but Kerr Smith played him well. He was still realistic (not EVERY jerky jock has to have a sensetive side.) And I DIE laughing when Seann Scott is lying headless on the ground and Kerr Smith has pissed himself!
I also liked to see Alex gone crazy. It was funny and scary. This is not like a dark comedy, because it's still horror, it's, uh... a hot dog! Makes you gag, but topped with the best thing in the world--ketchup! How come it doesn't fail? It's packaged by a bun!
I don't want to exceed my limit, but I will just say--FD is totally original, everything about it is. It grips you. You don't even care about the "flaws" (omg, Alex has gone psycho but it's no excuse to freak out about a kid he hardly knew dying!) and you just want MORE!