'The Recruit' has everything a spy thriller needs to work: good-guy vs. bad-guy plot, a motive for the spy scheme, the supposedly good-guy who you knew was a traitor five minutes into his debut, surprise twists and turns, romance, lots of spy toys and guys waving guns around in a threatening manner, and last but not least, a hot male star as the Secret Agent.
  Colin Farrell does a good job of playing the Secret Agent, from the face to the attitude to the credibility. His face has just enough arrogance to save him from being a pretty boy, even through his refusal to shave made him also eligible to play a bum off the street.  His cocky, somewhat daring, and conniving attitude saved him from becoming a saintly Jack Ryan, but he walked a fine line between arrogant and idiotic at times.  Although Mr. Farrell does not really possess the computer geek image that MIT supplies, it's easy to see him as Secret Agent Man.  Or a bartender, for that matter.
  Al Pacino is looking better than ever--literally.  In 'Simone'- which I believe was his most recent movie before 'Recruit,' Mr. Pacino looked old, worn out, and decrepit (which was fine, as his character was old, worn out, and decrepit).  In 'The Recruit,' Mr. Pacino looks years younger and more energetic--but his tell-all confession at the end of the flick grasped at a familiar straw. This is when the director assumes that he is trying to entertain a mob of five-year-olds, who need an explanation of the Bad Guy's motives in order to condemn him.
  Our Hero's Love Interest is played very conventionally by Bridget Moynahan.  Playing the Secret Agent's girlfriend is always a thankless task (whatever happens to all those broken-hearted Bond girls?), no matter how well the character is written or how well the actress performs.  Audiences never forget that the purpose of the girl in the Spy Flicks are simply for the Secret Agent to get laid.  Ms. Moynahan did her job well, but how much was truly demanded of her character?
  In the end, 'The Recruit' is merely just a test.  Can rising star Colin Farrell shakedown Americans in a movie that was clearly only made for money?  Can old Al Pacino still burn a hole in Uncle Sam's wallet?  And how many times can you reinvent the Spy-to-Spy Thriller before you have ritual suicides in the audience before the flick is over?  True, 'The Recruit' opens the doors to the CIA training facilities.  But let's face the truth: in a few years, ex-CIA bagmen will be coming out with tell-all stories about 'what REALLY goes behind the doors of the CIA.'  So if you're looking for Spy Stuff, rent a Bond Flick, In Like Flint, or 'The Bourne Identity'.  If you're looking for fast, easy entertainment, then 'The Recruit' is perfectly game.