This review refers to the Paramount DVD edition of the film.

THE WHO'S WHO: Starring Dana Kimmell, Paul Kratka, Tracie Savage, Jeffrey Rogers, Catherine Parks, Larry Zerner, David Katims, Rachel Howard, Richard Brooker, Steve Miner. Score Composed By Harry Manfredini. Title Theme Co-Written By Michael Zager. Directed By Steve Miner. (R) For Violence, Gore, Profanity, Drug Use, Very Brief Nudity and Mild Sexual Content; 95m.; 1982.

WHAT'S GOING ON IN HERE?: Well, there may not be any camp counselors in this one, but there are definitely enough victims for the misshapen maniac Jason Voorhees to slice and dice his way through. Picking up mere moments (screen time) after its predecessor left off, we find a group of vacationing friends traveling to a small house located in the general vicinity of Crystal Lake. Instead of the carefree recreation they were searching for, they find a gruesome killer stalking them at every turn. After his success with part two of this franchise, director Steve Miner returned for another unnerving outlet of terror. Unfortunately he's now working with standard material that, while suspenseful and still intriguing, has lost its ability to downright shock the audience. The players in this film have reverted back to the original "Friday the 13th" by being offered generic representations of youth culture. Even bikers Ali (Nick Savage), Loco (Kevin O'Brien) and Fox (Gloria Charles) are garden variety examples of their brethren. However, the actors involved rise above the material and turn in remarkable performances nonetheless. Of particular interest is leading lady Dana Kimmell as Chris and the humorous flunky Larry Zerner as Shelly, a wannabe actor and lover of practical jokes who inadvertently provides Jason with his trademark hockey mask. Other cast members include Tracie Savage as the pregnant Debbie, Jeffrey Rogers as Debbie's quasi-macho boyfriend Andy, Catherine Parks as Shelly's blind date Vera and Paul Kratka as reliable country bumpkin Rick. Rounding out the ensemble is David Katims and Rachel Howard as the stoner couple Chuck and Chili. "Crazy" Ralph's prophet of doom position has been replaced by the fabulous Abel (David Wiley in an all too brief segue). True "Friday" fans relish this film for the presence of Richard Brooker as Jason Voorhees, the incontrovertible king of the role. Years later, Kane Hodder would go on to play Jason more often and to much critical acclaim. But all of the little traits and quirks he brought to the role were carbon copy rip-offs of what Brooker had already accomplished. Trivia buffs take note: the man who co-wrote the film's opening theme is disco legend Michael Zager whose band performed the hit song "Let's All Chant" in the late seventies. Also, director Steve Miner briefly appears as a television newscaster. Overall, this film is a solid entry into the "Friday the 13th" film canon. It recognizes the classic heights reached by its predecessors and doesn't assume it will automatically reach those same levels. Miner and his cast work hard to make this a memorable movie without relying on name power alone.

THEY SAY THEY'RE SPECIAL BUT...: This film comes with a 2.35:1 widescreen transfer that, not surprisingly, looks like it was converted from an old VHS copy of the film. The presentation has a certain fuzziness to its quality and has regular intervals of grain making it the worst of the original three transfers. However, in a startling one-eighty, the accompanying 2.0 mono track is the clearest, most precise audio track to be included on a "Friday" film. The separation is very good and each sound is uniquely perceptible. There's a great tonality to the lower registers as well. A French mono track is also available for the film. English subtitles for this disc have a wonderful yellow coloring and have been placed within the frame of the movie. The cover for this DVD is a veridical reproduction of the original video release cover. The back cover is a bland excuse for a montage of film photos and information. The one sheet insert that comes with this film features better stills than the back cover and also spotlights the fourteen chapter stops for this ninety-five minute movie. The DVD itself is a silver top affair and features the same painting scheme (film title, Paramount logo, etc.) utilized on the discs for parts one and two. Continuing the tradition for the "Friday" films, the only extra available on this disc is the original theatrical trailer (2:13). The trailer is a sad reminder that this film was originally presented in the 3-D format, although Paramount foolishly (for whatever reason) did not return the film to its full third dimensional glory for this DVD release.

THE YOLK'S ON YOU: Paramount has never been known for plying their releases with additional footage, let alone hiding anything on the disc. You're more likely to make friends with Jason Voorhees than you are of finding hidden easter eggs on this one.

THE LEWD AND NUDE ALERT: Debbie (Tracie Savage) appears in a blue bikini while sunbathing. We then have the pleasure of watching her take a shower. While the viewer doesn't see too much, what we are allowed to see of her is lovely. Regrettably the ravishing Latin vixen Vera (Catherine Parks) isn't given the opportunity to express any true sexuality.

THE GORE REPORT: One of the girls is speared through the eye but there's not really that much blood. Another cast member has his head squeezed until his left eyeball pops out of its socket. Another luckless character loses a hand and one guy has a very realistic gash across his throat that should give cinematic bloodhounds a thrill. Even Jason gets in on the action by receiving a very bloody ax wound to the head. But the best scene of gore in this third film is when we see one of the young men split in half with his bloody intestines hanging out.

SAY AGAIN: "Why do you always have to be such an a**hole?" - Andy (Jeffrey Rogers). "I beg your pardon. I'm not an a**hole. I'm an actor." - Shelly (Larry Zerner). "Same thing." - Andy (Jeffrey Rogers).

THE FINAL SAY: Yes, I recommend buying this DVD. Even though Paramount has not reinstated the 3-D format for the film, it's still a worthy successor to the original two "Friday the 13th" features. It's more suspenseful than most of the remaining sequels and has a handful of scenes that will stick in the viewer's mind long after they've finished watching the film.

PLAY IT AGAIN, SAM: "Friday the 13th Parts I, II and III" Score Available on Gramavision Records.