I'll spare the review of the movie itself.  If you're reading this, you probably already know this movie is an absolute classic.

There's been some confusion about this release, so let me clear things up.

Because of some of the things I read, I waited for a long time before finally ordering one of these for myself.  Now I see there was no reason to hesitate.

This is a "just fine" print of the movie.  There's nothing "wrong" with the picture or sound--aside from simply being a dated production that has not been "remastered" in any way.

It's basically the same thing you would get if you carefully dubbed a very good copy of the VHS tape to DVD (which may actually be what they did!).

The picture and sound are basically as good as what you would have seen on your TV set back when this was first broadcast on network television.  In other words, there are no "flaws" that would in any way distract from the enjoyment of the drama.

Contrary to what another reviewer reported:  Yes, the Chinese subtitles are on by default--BUT THEY CAN BE TURNED OFF.  It's easy to do.

Someone was wishing that this release was "wide screen."  Sorry, but this would be IMPOSSIBLE.  The movie was ORIGINALLY FILMED IN 4:3 RATIO.  ("Wide screen" ratios did not exist until a few years after this movie was made.)

I'd gladly give this title SIX STARS!  But since I'm reviewing the technical merits of THIS SPECIFIC DVD RELEASE (rather than the artistic merits of the movie itself) I gave it four.

Is this version a Chinese bootleg?  I suppose it's possible.  These are put out by a small company in Hong Kong.  But I took a chance, because unfortunately, it's the only REGION-1 version of this movie on DVD right now.  So until they come out with a better version, I'm glad I've got this one.

Before Hollywood starts b****ing about bootlegging, they need extricate their heads from their collective ***es and get classics like this back in print.  Until then, they should expect to get bootlegged, and it's their own d*** fault.