In order to maintain the appearence of objectivity, I was going to rate this movie 4 stars.  But I just couldn't.  It really deserves 5, and it's going to get every one of them.  This movie features some of the most stunning cinematography I've ever seen (scenes of particular brilliance  include the deer-hunting scene and the slo-mo shots right before Gibson's  first rebellion), impeccable acting (I don't know why the British have been  hiding their actors from the American film industry - every one of the  British/Scottish actors in the film was amazing, and Patrick McGoohan (sp)  gave an incredible performance as Longshanks, not to mention newcomer  Sophie Marceau), a magical musical score, and on and on and on and on.  Physical elements alone qualify this work for the title of Best  Picture.
Yet, a number of people chastise Gibson and the movie for a  number of reasons, primarily its departure from historical accuracy.  I do  believe these people have missed the point, for I do not believe it is fair  to criticise a movie for failing to realize a goal for which it never  really strived.  I wonder: do these same people criticize Homer's "The  Odyssey"?  Do historical hardbodies cast aspersions at T.H. White's  "Once and Future King" for taking historical liberties with  "King" Arthur? (For that manner, any of the hundreds of  contributions to the Arthurian legend).  What about Robin Hood?  Beowulf?  Romance of the Three Kingdoms?  Why is it copacetic for a book to create a  myth around a cultural hero, but when it comes to film we must be expected  to be as straightlaced about historical fact as an army bootcamp is about  bedmaking and floor cleaning?  
I have read a lot of reviews below and a  number of criticisers of the film's historical authenticity spit out the  word "epic" as if it is a word that the American film industry  has abused and transmogrified into a catchphrase for luring in gullible  American movie-goers.  But I argue that Braveheart, and the historical  inaccuracies which it adopts (and it adopts many, which are nicely pointed  out elsewhere), fit the same formula for "Epic Fiction" that we  use to classify great (and I mean, universally accepted as great) epic  works of fiction such as the Iliad, the Odyssey, etc.  These works are not  about who did what where and when and in what fashion.  They are about the  myth, the hero, and the way that they have influenced the ideals of the  culture (italicize that).  Was there really a Grendel, a Cyclops shepherd,  a Wizard named Merlin, or  Chinese war heroes who could single-handedly  take on a small army?  No.  And yet, these works of fiction (and the  mythological heroes that they have created) have had as much if not more of  an impact on their respective cultures than any real life historical event.  The impact of the epic is therefore not to be underestimated.  Does the  fact that Gibson portrayed the battle of Sterling Bridge without a Bridge  really make that much of a differnce?  The end outcome was the same, at  least from an idealogical point of view.  He rallied his men to victory  with brilliant tactics against insurmountable odds.  The presence or  absence of a bridge, naked men, or twenty foot spears does not change that.  The myth survives.
Finally, regarding historical accuracy, there is the  fact that although the movie does take a lot of liberties in order to  portray a THEME - I am intelligent enough to suspend my disbelief during  the movie.  Furthermore, after the movie is over, (and this is a credit to  the movie-maker) I was intrigued enough to go do some research on the  subject from an objective historical source to find out what really  happened.  If a work of art (which is not, I remind you, required to be  objective - artistic objectivity is almost an oxymoron and film should not  be treated differently in this regard than any other form of art) instills  in me a desire to learn more about a subject while at the same time  portraying well the epic themes it sets out to portray, then in my book it  was a successful venture and worthy of all the accolades it  receives....Again, this is an epic, and just as a Greek epic might portray  the Trojans as ruthless savages and their own members as heroic  visionaries, I think it is acceptable for a Scottish epic to do the same to  the British.  And calling Gibson a homophobic is just ridiculous.  Whether  or not Edward II was really gay is not important.  If he was, then BY THE  STANDARDS OF THE DAY, he was an outcast, and would have been perceived,  especially by his father, as weak, without potential, and unfit to rule.  If he wasn't gay, but was just disinterested in ruling a kingdom (and  history is filled to the brim with examples of less than sterling royal  progeny), he would have again been seen (especially by his father) as weak,  without potential and unfit to rule (because fathers - especially kings -  have expectations of their sons), and questions about his sexuality would  have naturally begun to arise among the nobility and commonfolk.  What we  as viewers of a historical or epic piece of artwork must do is refrain from  judging said work by our standards.  Today, homosexuality is (for the most  part) accepted by society.  Back then, it wasn't, and the mere rumor was  enough to get you rejected from society (and vice-versa).  Therefore, in  light of the times in which the movie is set, the portrayal of the weak fop  of a prince, EdwardII, as homosexual is both acceptable and indicative of  the society that the movie was trying to portray.  It wouldn't, for  example, have made much sense to portray Edward I as gay.  Not because a  gay man couldn't be a successful King or military leader, but because a gay  man would never have achieved respect as a monarch - THEN - by the people  or his enemy.
In closing, this is an excellent film that deserves its  status as a best picture, despite (and perhaps because of) its historical  inaccuracies.  I encourage anyone with any interest in medieval history to  view it, because it might just entice you to look into more historically  accurate documents that, while not as entertaining as the movie iteself,  will give you a more wholistic picture of what really happened.