I am always surprised nearly every film I check out has a rating of 4 stars, when it should have 1. Why not this? So now I have to give it 5 to even the score (OK, I cheated).
  This is the best crocofilm of the subcrocoflicks - the second drawer of crockery.
  CGI, while not top-notch like the original, sometimes comes close, and to me is never really bad but just off a few times (Playstation can be pretty real sometimes you know!). So, CGIOK.

LP2 is
1) Finally a croc film where you do see a fair amount of the croc.
2) And - I can't believe it - it is always in the day! Though the real solidity is slightly lacking, and only once the beast enters sunlight - and it's when it's dappled; that sucks. Sometimes the detail gets quite good, showing even the inside of the mouth.

  Sure the pointier, snappier wit of the orig is not quite there, but at least it has wit, with bite! They do try much humour and I don't think it all as sad as most others do. Most so-called creature films don't have any humour, for fear of disturbing the seriousness, but are like food without spice or sauce, that goes down like unreality, or like having a meal without a drink. So hooray here!
 Plus it has some delicious desserts in carnage. Gratuitous beasts and gratuitous breasts!
 As always, the actors and plot are on par with the CGI.

THE OTHER BOTTOM DRAWER CROCKERY
Don't see Supercroc of **it (on the DVD extra, even the girl star said welcome to "Super croc of..." then she went quiet and laughed I think), where the nightly ghost croc is more lacking in detail.
Make sure you miss bloody Blood Surf, that croc out where you never even see the whole croc once - see it walking - but just the rubber head or front part. THAT is much worse than the meticulous care that goes into even undernourished CGI.
You can wait to see Primeval, the better of these two, with infuriating minimal croc action, always at night, and always spaztcroc.
And cop Croc. Unless it is the first or second croc film you've seen, is just the same routine filmed in minimalism again. Mostly real crocs are filmed, often with added CGI like an arm out the mouth, or else shoddy flashes of the crocodummy head.
Black Water I've yet to see seems above C-grade.

See, without true tension, they better make up for it with more croc action, or else they lose this audient.