I enjoy reading the negative reviews for Moore films.  They will attack Moore himself and his politics and then wave the magic anti-liberal wand like it automatically absolves them from making any further logical argument.  Is it because they don't have rational argument for the actual content of the film and the questions being asked in it?

One of the oft-heard arguments is the grandstanding that Moore does in his films.  Is taking a bunch of sick people to Cuba a showboat tactic?  Yes it is, but this is also a film and supposed to be entertaining.  If Moore stuck to the staid, classroom-lecture style of documentary making that conservatives seem to love, these films would not get publicity, people would not see them, people would not discuss them, and questions (ah yes, the questions), questions that desperately need to be pondered and answered, would not be pondered and answered.

For me personally, I have seen both sides of the healthcare systems presented in the movie.  I have paid premiums and been treated in both the US and Canada.  The waiting room scenario from Ontario isn't as rosy as presented in the film, I did have to wait several hours, but I was checked up on constantly until the equipment to do proper tests were available.  However, I did not have to fill in a single payment form and no money was required, no bill arrived later.  My premiums then were 90 dollars a month.

In the US, letters were required, permission was required, a co-payment was required, a waiting time of several weeks occurred because of the permission required.  Because of the concern for my symptoms, I ended up going back to Canada and getting the tests done by walking into the doctor of my choosing within the week.  No permission, no money.  I had paid 450 dollars in premiums for my US HMO fees and ended up feeling concerned enough by the bureaucracy and red tape that I looked elsewhere for attention before something serious happened.

Why I present this information is to say that Moore's film is not hyperbole, it is not made up, it is really happening.  People with healthcare are getting screwed by a system of greed (not surprising to see the Nixon government getting the ball rolling...what do you expect from a criminal?).  The mentality of a nation that continues to rail against having to pay a little extra to help out those that need it really makes me question whether people understand what being a citizen is. Are they citizens of their country or citizens of themselves?  Until people realize that socialized medicine is not communism but rather helping someone in need, this country will continue with a grotesque, morally bankrupt, selfish style of 'healthcare' that cares little for the individual, and, perversely, entirely about the investor's bottom line.

Moore's film (and films in general) are important and relevant as they are mirrors held up for your consideration.  What you come away with after watching them may affect you, but more importantly, your response to others regarding the film will speak volumes about your humanity.

I give the film 4 stars because there was little argument on the FOR side for HMOs. I am not behind their concept, but I would have appreciated hearing from some of their apologists and what their rationale is.  I'm sure there are decent, cogent arguments that could be applied to create a better health care system all around.