I urge shoppers to buy the CD rather than the DVD, because the editing of the DVD is astoundingly atrocious.  Most of the shots less less than one second, so that very often each second features several jump cuts, literally more frequent than every half second!  Actually this DVD (or at least, the copy I rented from Netflix) offers the viewer two options, and this review refers only to the option of viewing the "interrupted" version of each performance.  The default option, I think, interrupts each song to intersperse interviews.  I presume the default version is edited like a standard documentary, not so much of interest to someone who'd like to see how each performance works as a whole song.  There was no option to watch the interrupted performances and then interviews (unless one cares to watch the songs a second time to catch the interspersed interviews).  (In order to cut to each song's "uninterrupted" version, the viewer must press "enter" on the remote when a treble clef appears onscreen near the start of each song-segment.  One annoying problem is that the DVD tends to revert to the start of the *previous* segment you just watched, rather than to the start of the onscreen one you're trying to watch.  Not only is this very inconvenient, moreover it means that you can't just let it play the interrupted songs the way you would a CD.)

A few of the performances on the CD are great, and well worth hearing, but I found them all unwatchable because all the jump cuts, several per second, made me queasy.  One of the great performances is simply one singer and one pianist, yet there were two cameras on the singer:  even when the editor chose to show the singer singing more than one consecutive phrase, the edit jumps back and forth between the two camera angles.  It's sickening, and utterly out of keeping with the songs.

Worse still, this DVD has value as documentation of interracial crossover, but the editing struck me as racist because it features the White studio musicians noticeably more than the Black performers. It's a terrible irony.  How wonderful that Dylan used Black Gospel music to great effect in his compositions, and that these world-beating Black performers honored these compositions by giving their all to perform them as Black Gospel songs.  How atrocious that some editor not only made a stroboscopic edit of every single song, but also focused the video way inordinately on the White studio musicians.