Princess Diaries  MPAA Rating: G

Overall: A

Violence: B+  Movie portrays verbal intimidation (bullying).

Sexual Content: B  Movie has some kissing and a suggestive scene

Language: A

Drugs/Alcohol: B Movie has a couple social drinking scenes.

The MPAA rated Princess Diaries G.

Any girl or woman who has dreamed of having her own fairytale come true will delight in the story of Mia Thermopolis, played by Anne Hathaway.  Mia, a 15 year old girl from San Francisco, CA, whose "main purpose in life is to be invisible", experiences a life changing event when she receives an unexpected visit from her grandmother Clarice Renaldi (Julie Andrews).  She learns that her grandmother is the queen of Genovia, a small country by France.  Mia then discovers her true identity: princess of Genovia.  Afraid and overwhelmed, Mia resorts to the same solution for all her problems: she runs away from them.

With the persuasion of her mother Helen, played by Caroline Goodall, Mia agrees to take princess lessons from her grandmother and wait to decide whether she wants to accept her title or not.  She starts meeting with her grandmother everyday after school for lessons in how to be a proper princess: how to dress, walk, eat, sit, and behave.  Despite all these lessons, she still has trouble with fellow schoolmates who tease her for her clumsiness.  Her best friend Lilly Moscovitz (Heather Matarazzo), an outspoken environmentalist and fellow student, gives her emotional support amidst the torment. However, when Mia changes her appearance through a makeover requested by her grandmother, Lilly too gets frustrated. She accuses Mia of "selling out" to be popular. Far from the truth, Mia lets Lilly in on her secret princess identity.

When Mia's identity is leaked to the press, she faces challenges such as false publicity and new "friends" that use her for fame. Getting caught up in her new found popularity, she temporarily loses sight of what is most important: her friends and family who have always been there for her.

Throughout the movie Mia struggles with the challenge of overcoming her klutziness and fitting into the world of royalty.  Luckily, through the journey of becoming "princess-ified" she learns more about herself, her potential, and how to face her problems.

The theme of this film stems from some wise counsel written in a letter by Mia's father.  Have courage to "allow yourself to make the journey from who you are to who you have the potential to become."  Aside from a few brief sexual references and some slight immodesty, the overriding themes and plot are enjoyable for the whole family.

Talk about the movie with your family...

While it is unlikely that you will suddenly discover that you are royalty, it is important to allow yourself to make the journey to become the person you have the potential to be.  What things might you do to further develop your potential? Must you always conform to others' views of ideal perfection?

Mia runs away several times from her problems. Are there any problems that you are running away from? What are more appropriate ways to solve them?

Video Alternatives...

If you liked this movie, look for the sequel Princess Diaries II.  For another good movie involving the process of self discovery, check out What A Girl Wants.