A previous reviewer wrote: "How would you feel if someone opened your mind to something in an entirely new light? You never saw it that way until they showed you." in relationship to music of this kind, I dare say that it was just short of true magic. That kind of music held an almost voodoo like power when herd. As I watched the reaction of some of the women in the movie reacting to this kind of music, I could get closer to the type of power, the godlike persuasion, if you will, that some composers had at the time. Have you ever see the old National geographic videos? that showed the reaction of native peoples to orchestral music? It was of great awe - god like and powerfully magical. And please don't remind me the upper crust society was used to it. Not by a long shot. This movie, lets you experience that quality. Yes, you can indulge over the point that the women in the movie "loved" the composer, But it is apparent, to some that they are in love with the sound that his music provided. The power of that music, if you had never herd that kind of music very much might very well let you interpret a deep awe.

Having seen Immortal Beloved, I have a much stronger respect for Beethoven, as well as his contribution to this world...his music.

In My Never To Be Humble personal opinion...a masterpiece. It affects me to such a degree every time I experience it, I always aware of a deep energy penetrating emotion on my face. How would you feel if someone opened your mind to something in an entirely new light? You never saw it that way until they showed you. This is what the film does for me. Rich cinematography, Some untouched primal awe was awakened in me as if we could hear that music the way they would have herd it back in Beethoven's day. A tragic love story in the best sense.

 I personally feel these people are just missing out on a great film and great storytelling at its best. But you be the judge...see Immortal Beloved. I guarantee you'll never be able to listen to Beethoven's music quite the same way ever again.