This is a blockbuster documentary.  I think anyone who likes music should watch an utter genius in formation.  Man, Dylan was great singing that song for "Wonder Boys." and to think "Tangled Up In Blue" is only considered an average song.  Dylan has lasted because he is vital and important.  I hope he keeps charging forward with his music, because I think he will have interesting things to say as he ages.

As Steve Allen said during Dylan's appearence on that show in 1964, "genius knows no rules."  How true it is.  Like most geniuses, Dylan arrives from Hibbing, Minnesota as Robert Zimmerman, like some kind of space alien. He is just a special being not tethered to the reality of place. He could have been from Timbuktu somehow.  It sure didn't seem to matter - or did it.  Perhaps being from the bland post-war Midwest is what gave him the ingredients to work with.

Dylan is an artist.  The reviewer who below said that Dylan was not a poet is politely a nincompoop.  Dylan is a great poet, whose songs transcend his accompanying music and his awful voice.  But who cares about his voice.

In reality, all you hear is the VOICE of a great artist. I was not around during the sixties.  I picked up a Dylan album after listening to "Dont talk twice it's alright" after breaking up with a girl.  That song spoke to me, and other songs spoke to me with their simplicity and ther beauty.

In terms of this documentary, the tremendous archival footage is culled together in an utterly interesting and vital way.  You can see Dylan literally discover his genius as an artist.  This documentary captures interviews of the figures in Dylan's life, including the Beat generation poet Allen Ginsburg, Joan Baez, and others.  (Interesting to note is that Dylan says that Kerouac's "On the Road" didn't have much of an effect on him.)

This is a film worth seeing because it gives you the life of the artist.  A rare and worthwhile glimpse into greatness.  Imagine if we had the same footage for Michaelangelo or Leonardo DiCaprio (I am kidding :))  I mean of course, Leonardo Da Vinci.  How great would that be, well you have a chance to discover a unique talent here with Scorcese's Dylan.  Enjoy.