Ever since "Old School" was released in 2003, there have been several movies that have basically the same cast of actors.  Those actors are Vince Vaughn, Will Ferrell, Ben Stiller and one of the Wilson Brothers.  I think this is a great group of guys to co-star in comedies together.  They each have their own respective comedic styles and when put together, it feeds well off eachother.  "Wedding Crashers" is the latest collaboration of this group of actors, and once again the results are similar.

The premise of "Wedding Crashers" is that a couple of friends, John and Jeremy (Owen Wilson and Vince Vaughn), have a annual tradition of going to weddings by pretending to be family friends.  The purpose?  To pick up on girls that are so caught up in the loving, romantic atmosphere of the wedding that they will be willing to do pretty much what John and Jeremy want.  BRILLIANT!!!  At a wedding for the daughter of Secretary of State (I think) William Clearly, John falls for one of Clearly's other daughters, Claire.  Jeremy on the other hand "makes love" to Clearly's youngest daughter, Gloria.  Well Gloria turns out to be a pyscho that immediately falls in love with Jeremy and invites him and John to spend the weekend at their house.  From there, funny situations happen.  The Clearlys find out that John and Jeremy aren't who they claim they are and John and Jeremy learn that their ways are wrong and become new men.  Pretty much the standard for romantic-type comedies.

First of all, this is Vince Vaughn's movie.  He is the star.  He has the funniest scenes, the best one-lines and brings the best presence to the screen.  I'm not a big fan of Owen Wilson's comedy, but he did a fine job in this film.  The movie itself was really funny.  The only problem that I had with it is that it was too long and that it got really slow in the last twenty minutes.  Also, you get to see some topless women, so thats always a plus.

Overall, I really enjoyed this movie.  As mentioned earlier, Vince Vaughn completely carried this movie.  Without him I don't want to think of what this movie might have been.  Its definitely a good choice if you're wanting to see a movie.