I know that my title is suggesting a lot, but let me explain. I've had this battle about which Christmas Carol is the best adaptation of the book with many friends and most of the time, I get that the George C Scott version, <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0006419KA">A Christmas Carol</a> is the best. So I watched it and to be honest, it was a great version, but I think it had many faults. However I won't get into that here since this review is for the Disney version. Let's get to it.

THE STORY
I saw a review here stating that this movie moved too slow through the emotional scenes and too quickly through everything else. Your opinion on this may differ depending on how you interpret the book, but for me, this story is a heartfelt tale of a grumpy old man who hates happiness mainly because he doesn't have any. You're supposed to hate this man while trying to figure out why everyone around him has sympathy. Only later on when Scrooge is visited by his spirits do you begin to understand how he got to be the way he is. And right about the moment you start feeling your own sympathies, you watch Scrooge begin to "open his eyes". After the spirits have shown him his past, present and future, Scrooge has an awakening and realizes what's really important in life. The reason I mentioned all that is because although this book was written during part of Charles Dickens' darkside of storytelling and "A Christmas Carol" was (or is) supposed to be a ghost story, I feel like with today's audience, this story won't scare anyone, so it's nice to have a bit of the warm side.

Other adaptations of this story do not have much of a warm side, but the Disney version seems to capture both. The speed of this film is perfect. If you watch the other versions with the book in hand, it almost feels like the actors are simply reading their lines and jumping from one scene to the next with no time for the audience to take in what is transpiring. That's why I do not think this version moves too slow.

Unlike the George C. Scott version, I find that with Disney's version, Scrooge makes a more believable transformation in the end. Because he starts out as a feeble old man, it becomes very believable that he's only being mean because he has an unhappy side to him. This is why the people around him feel so much sympathy. It's almost like it's not his fault. To me, this makes the best Scrooge. The problem with George C. Scott is that he's already a very powerful and dominating force (and great actor), so he's already expected to be a mean person. This makes it feel like at the end of that movie, Scrooge is more or less just being nice because he has to and not because he really had a life-changing night. There's not much of a distinction between angry George C. Scott and happy George C. Scott!

Disney's version makes Scrooge very humble in the end...almost to the point of groveling (although he doesn't). The reason this sold it for me was because it made me feel like the spirits really shook him to his core. He was genuinely scared and sad throughout the whole process, thus the end reactions appear more genuine. The end scene at his nephew's house even has a bit of sadness to it. It's hard to get choked up over animated movies, but this one comes very close! I think that if this movie had been live-action, Jim Carrey might not have sold me on Scrooge only because it's hard to see Jim Carrey as a mean person. However, the way he voiced Scrooge really brings it home.

THE SPIRITS
A lot of reviews hated the spirits in this version for either being too weird, too obnoxious or too scary. I find all three of these assessments to be false. In almost every adaptation, the Spirit of Christmas Present is generally the same, but the other two vary dramatically. I found that what Disney did with the Spirit of Christmas Past (making him a candle) fit in best with how Dickens described him in the book. It made it much easier to visualize a spirit with a head glowing of bright light (the flame) and it made more sense as to why he was holding a snuffer. Granted, the comparison might be unfair to past iterations because this movie employs special effects that we didn't have in the past, but still...I think it's much better.

The one thing I liked a lot was that the first two spirits were acted out by Jim Carrey too. When reading the book, you almost want to believe that the spirits are actually figments of Scrooge's own imagination, therefore they would probably be in his own image. In this movie, they are just that and they make no attempt at hiding this fact. That in itself offered a little more to the "coolness" factor.

The Spirit of Christmas Future is what really makes this movie seem scary, but that's where we get into the realm of the original story being a ghost story. I really like that Disney didn't "Disney-fy" it too much. Of course, there is some concern with this film being too scary for young children as it deals with death and is generally a very dark picture, but keeping it inline with the story was very important and this version does just that. If you're concerned about your children, just watch it with them and explain to them what's going on. They'll understand.

THE SOUND
One of the areas where this movie excels is the sound and music. If you have the option, watch this on your home theatre system and you'll be mesmerized by how the littlest of sound will be so prevalent in very quiet scenes. I find that this adds to the drama and even creates a bit of fear in some parts. Even the voices are crisp and clear. The sound of falling snow sounds just as it would. It almost let's you hear what cold sounds like...if that's possible!

The soundtrack is just as fabulous although this film is not heavily scored. I find that it uses music in just the right places and by doing so, it doesn't drown out what's happening.

CONCLUSION
I find something I like in all versions of A Christmas Carol and I've seen a lot! However, I really loved the book and it always makes me wonder off to some cold city in England of the past where Christmas is a vibrant time during the coldest part of the year. I wonder how life would have been back in those times and I try to imagine what it would be like to live in a place like that. Unfortunately, many of the film adaptations still feel like we're on a movie set and things don't always look right. This version, however really illustrates an almost perfect collection of scenes that seem to flow seamlessly from one to the next. Of course, the fact that this movie is animated helps out a lot since they can do whatever they want with a virtual world, but that's ok! If that's the best way to tell a story like this, then so be it.

None of what I said above is meant to disregard any other version of this story as they are all great in their own way. But in the end, this has become my favorite.