In `The Fugitive', Andrew Davis chose to adapt a television icon into a vehicle for its star, Harrison Ford. Unfortunately, at the same time, Davis managed to provide an icon for a trend that has been plaguing films since, presumably, moviemakers began to run out of viable plot lines: the Dumbing Down of the American Audience Movie. Although numerous examples could be offered from the film to demonstrate this unfortunate trend, the four most vital ones should suffice:

1) Ford, a successful and wealthy doctor, presented as being obviously close to his wife (or was her strewing of rose blossoms strictly for therapeutic effect?), is convicted of her killing with only weak and highly dubious evidence and motive which any decent attorney, let alone the battery of them he should have hired, would have shredded in no time.

 2) Since the crime was committed in Chicago, and Ford was remanded to the Illinois State prison for the carrying out of his sentence, a U.S. Marshal would not have had jurisdiction especially at the time the movie was made. Assuming Illinois was similar to most other states, their state police would be responsible for escaped state felons, and even if help was solicited from the federal government it would have been on a collaborative basis at best. Both Tommy Lee Jones's right in asserting control of the case, and the arrogance in which he conducted himself throughout the movie, were ridiculous.

 3) The unjustly famous bus/train crash scene in fact, suffered from severe problems of continuity and logic. The bus clearly was not on any train tracks when it came to a rest; even if so given the nature of the terrain it rolled down it would have had to come to a rest along the tracks instead of across them; the entire scene shifted to an entirely different locale when the train did come along, including a large river below and beside the tracks; the second engine of the 2-engine train was obviously well beyond Ford instead of being behind him when it jumped the tracks; and in any event all he would have had to do was run a few yards at right angles to the engine's path instead of directly before it to escape it.

4) The one-armed man stated to Jones that he had been previously investigated by the police for the murder of Ford's wife. As a matter of course they would then have discovered that both his position in and the nature of the company he was working for should have been more than enough to arouse ample suspicion and lead them to the true guilty parties.

  Given these crucial shortcomings, along with the usual number of absurdities films of this type seem to indulge in (the Chicago police virtually en masse were portrayed as immoral and inept thugs), and the usual number of minor problems (Ford would have had to jump at least 30 feet out to hit the dam's converging water plumes and avoid the concrete wall, and from a standing position to boot!) and coincidences necessary to further the flow of the script (in the enormous Cook County Hospital complex Jones conveniently finds himself at a crucial time right outside the one department that gives him an insight into the crime), one wonders if most of the other reviews at this site were about the same movie, especially after its appearance on DVD allows for repeated viewings. The shame of it is that, given more care in directing and continuity, many of the above problems could have been eliminated and `The Fugitive' might well indeed have been a good or even excellent movie.