Season 6 is kind of the dark horse among Buffy fans, and having watched the show during its initial UPN run I can understand why.  Heck, even I was turned off by the dark, relentlessly depressing nature of the season, the lack of a traditional big bad, and the network's sporadic airing of new episodes.  Thank God for DVD, because thanks to this set I have a whole new appreciation for Joss Whedon, his writers, and the highly talented actors.
Without the weeks or sometimes months between new episodes (God bless UPN for keeping Buffy alive, but couldn't you have shown new episodes closer together?), the narrative structure of the season works so much better.  It is much easier to watch and appreciate the growth and change experienced by the main cast, all of who slowly grow up throughout the season until they are nothing like the group of high schoolers we first met.  The writers did a wonderful job of providing a distinct arc for each character, and the actors did a brilliant job portraying the evolution of the characters.  
Sarah Michelle Gellar is once again stellar as Buffy Summers, whose emotional problems this season make all the angst up until now seem like kiddy stuff.  I'm so glad Joss and company made the effort to earn Buffy's resurrection instead of simply reviving her and then letting everything immediately go back to normal.  They took the much more difficult and ultimately more rewarding path of having Buffy slowly readjusting to her life, not fully reintegrating herself into Sunnydale until the end of the season.
All the other actors actors are equally fine, but Emma Caulfield deserves special recognition for her charming and underappreciated Anya.  Consistantly hilarious, Caulfield takes a character who was clearly added to the show's roster as comic relief and makes her multi-dimensional and surprisingly human.  By the end of the heart-wrenching "Hell's Bells," Anya shows an emotional depth that makes her possibly the most tragic character of the season, and Miss Caulfield handles the part beautifully.
And of course, season six of Buffy gave us the much lauded musical episode "Once More, With Feeling."  I'm not ashamed to admit that it is my FAVORITE episode of the entire seven season run, encapsulating just about everything that makes Buffy special.  It's smart, well written, irreverant, and packed with a surprising amount of emotional resonance.  No, most of the cast won't be going to Broadway anytime soon, but bravo to the entire cast for handling their own singing, which actually only serves to make the episode more charming.
Season six of Buffy brought the characters to new low points in their lives, the show to new heights as far as writing and storytelling go, and produced some of the most entertaining adversaries the show's every seen (maybe I'm a nerd, but I find the Trio to be absolutely hysterical).  If you've been watching the show since day one, now certainly isn't the time to stop, and if you've never seen the show, you're missing out on one of the most consistantly excellent programs of the last decade.