THE UNITED STATES OF LELAND centers around the mellow, rather indifferent youth that is Leland P. Fitzgerald (Ryan Gosling), who has just murdered the mentally retarded brother of his girlfriend Becky (Jena Malone) for what appears to be no reason whatsoever. He keeps telling people he doesn't remember why he did it, and he doesn't even remember very much of the incident itself, other than little details like how the sun felt on the back of his neck. Okay, you're thinking. He's crazy. But what writer/director Matthew Ryan Hoge wanted to convey to us was the story of a young visionary, who went a little crazy over all the hurt and sadness he saw in people's eyes and wanted to end the sadness of his victim, Ryan. This is all fine and good as it ties in with the moral of the story - that even through the sadness, even through the mistakes, there is a goodness in people - but it comes over a bit pretentious as Gosling's character sits there and preaches in his annoyingly soft-spoken monologues, while keeping his face completely void of all emotion. I'm sorry, but you don't see very many fifteen-year-old visionaries that talk about the sadness of the world. And Hoge pulled that old trick where the adults learn something from the youth, because the youth is unjaded by adult sadness or out of the mouths of babes, blah blah blah whatever. Been there, seen that.

Detention center teacher Pearl (played very well by Don Cheadle), an aspiring writer trapped in a sticky web of dead creativity, finds a novel idea in Leland and decides to conduct clandestine sessions with the teenager, hoping to unravel a motive and learn a little about the people that played into the tragedy. He is one of the many characters in the movie that wrestles with mistakes, but gives into them anyway with the excuse that he is "only human." In one of the only parts of the movie I wouldn't call pretentious, Leland calls him out on this, saying, "It's funny how people only say that after they've done something wrong." Girlfriend Becky has fallen into heroin abuse; Becky's college-bound sister Julie (Michelle Williams) wrestles with whether or not she should tell her boyfriend Allen (Chris Klein, in an unexpectedly great role) that she doesn't want to continue their relationship into college; and Leland's detached novelist father (Kevin Spacey) tries to ignore the fact that he is neglecting his son. The supporting cast is great in their portrayal of good people trying to do the right thing and failing, only to continue trying for the sake of it. And while Ryan Gosling allows clammed-up Leland to spread his wings a little and open up, for the most part the character remains frustratingly bland.

It's a good movie, well worth watching, with good character development, morals, and great acting - and though the climax isn't very exciting, it's surprising and brings everything full circle - but if I had to live in the United States of Leland every day, I'd emigrate.