Being willing to sacrifice oneself is a luxury that only the least connected among us can afford. In the THE DEEP END, a modern retelling of Max Ophuls' 1946 thriller THE RECKLESS MOMENT, Margaret Hall is a mother of three willing to to do whatever it takes to keep her family safe from the irrational forces that follow her teenage son home one night from a nightclub of ill repute. But mom, played with stoic intensity by Tilda Swinton, quickly learns that heroism doesn't fit on a calendar already packed with soccer practices, trumpet lessons, dance recitals and visits to the grocery store.
Superficially the story concerns bad luck. Noirish events are set in motion when Margaret tries to cover up the accidental death of her son's unsavory friend (Josh Lucas as a spookily playful predator). The next day a man with a dice tattoo on his neck knocks on her door and demands $50,000 to supress a videotape linking her son to the death, which police have ruled a homicide. The dramatic heart of the film concerns Mrs. Hall's dealings with the blackmailer, cagely played by Goran Visnjic, ER's Slavic heartthrob in a less soapy but perversely related role.
Taken at this level THE DEEP END is an eerie joy ride that may strike some as leaning a little heavily on coincidence. But the presence of Tilda Swinton indicates that more is going on here than melodrama. Ms. Swinton is a brilliant post-feminist actress whose work sheds light on paradoxes of femininity and female power.  Her earlier films include ORLANDO, in which she explored androgyny and immortality, and FEMALE PERVERSIONS, a Freudian critique of the feminist myth of "having it all." In THE DEEP END, Ms. Swinton's nuanced performance comments on motherhood as a source of both power and vulnerability. A woman may be willing to do anything for her son, as Margaret Hall clearly is, yet still be constrained by a "glass ceiling" of caregiving attachments that prevent her from achieving man-style success. In cinema, the latter typically means blowing the villains' brains out, something Margaret Hall might consider doing if she weren't so busy taking care of her kids and aging father-in-law.
THE DEEP END begins with Margaret confronting her son's homosexual lover and ends with a phone call from her husband, a Navy officer who throughout the film remains unreachable on an aircraft carrier "somewhere in the mid-Atlantic." Mr. Hall's conspicuous absence and his infirm father's burdensome presence amplify Margaret's predicament, showing how hollow the conventions of marriage and machismo can be. Near the end, Margaret seems as anxious about how her husband will take the news of their son's sexual identity as she is about blackmail and murder. In this mother's hour of need, men prove at best useless, at worst far more dangerous than bad luck, the consistent enemies of hearth and home.