This is a story about a shell-shocked soldier, David Powlett-Jones who returns home from the First World War, and finds his healing and restoration while teaching at an English boarding school for boys called Bamfylde.  The story is derived from the novel by R. F. Delderfield with the same title as the film, To Serve Them All My Days.  It is a hopeful and encouraging story which sweeps across the years from the final days of the First World War to the approach of the Second World War. Many discouragements and even tragedy plague the years, but the general trend is upward and encouraging.

This is a film series that I had waited a long time to see.  I had read the book, To Serve Them All My Days twice, the second time just before seeing the film version.  By and large I thought the film version was quite well done. The adult characters are well developed as they are in Delderfield's writing.  Many of the individual schoolboy characters are slighted somewhat in the film, however.  The story flows well from episode to episode as it apparently was presented on television.

The DVD version is about eleven hours long on four DVDs.  In shorter films derived from written stories, one can understand leaving some significant things out.  I felt, however, that there were too many exclusions in the film version of To Serve Them All My Days which was plenty long enough to take into account important elements of Delderfield's original story.  In that sense I was quite disappointed.  I felt the film makers deleted too many of the stories about the individual schoolboys which give the written story reality and life.  Plus, the entire aspect of the story based on the survival and recovery of Powlett-Jones' young daughter, Grace, who in the book lives through the accident in which Powlett-Jones first wife and Grace's twin sister Joan were killed.  I use the word "aspect" because Grace figures very prominently through much of the story as Delderfield originally told it, partnering with her father from a very young age and aided in her recovery by two of the Bamfylde schoolboys in particular, and finally joining her father as a secretary.  When such a major aspect of a story is removed the story becomes something different.  A bit less of Powlett-Jones love life and common room discussions, and the inclusion of Grace's recovery, and more of the stories about the boys he served all his days would, in my opinion, have raised the film to a level of excellence.