One of the worries of  journalists everywhere is to keep an protect the source. The source is where all the information comes from. Once you've got a source another point comes up: how reliable this person is. It is very easy to anyone go to a reporter tell something -- that's not necesseraly true -- and his/her statement is published. So a good professional would surely investigate and print the news once it is proved to be true. But this can happen only in a ideal world. Let's face the truth: journalist do not have too much time to comfirm or deny informations. Nowadays with the internet, the readers want new news all the time and the fight for the click has shorted the deadlines. 
It is in this time of digital press that film made in the 80s' turns out to be very interesting and provocative, due to its timeless subject. Sally Field plays  a reporter of a major Miami's Newspaper who has fallen in a trap. She has no qualms when having the chance to peep a file about a man accused of kidnapping and killing a working class leader. Moreover, she gets involved with this man who in the end happens to be her reliable source. Telling more than this would mean give some interesting twists of the movie.
As aforementioned, the movie tackles ethic in journalism, and, let's face it, Sally's character is not that ethical with her sources. She does most of the things that someone expected to be fair and accurate wouldn't do, like not confirming information or publishing off record statements  -- plus she sleeps with her source. Some in-love hearts would justify it saying that love is above everything, but I don't agree. What  kind of professional is she? 
Tlaking about the movie itself, it is very entertaining. Sally Field gives a good performance, but who is great as usual is Paul Newman. His perfornance is very subtle and full of nuances. Bob Balaban is terrific and a bit hateful as agent who comes down to be the prime source to Sally's reporter, detonating a sequence of inacuratte reports. 
It is impossible to watch this movie and not to rise questions like how accure all the stuff we read in newspapers, magazines, internet is; and also when is an information so important that it has to be published, even when the source asks it to ve off the record. One interesting example would be when a reporter is working on a piece about two guys missing in the sea and a Lt. tells her that there are sharks in the area. But Sally tells her not to mention it in her article, because it may scare turists,  so the solution is to say that is an area with many fishes. Then how true is her piece? 
All in all, nowadays, as the press has to be faster, there's less time to check information. So the readers are much more liable to read untrue stories.