After watching the first of these four films, Bender's Big Score, I wasn't quite sure what to make of it. So I watched it again, and again, and again before realising that I must love it to be watching it so many times! It was a complicated story, but a lot of fun.

After watching the second film, The Beast With A Billion Backs, I thought I liked it - sort of - but then couldn't bring myself to watch it again. I tried, but that opening on Kiff's homeworld just put me right off. I realised that I didn't like this film at all.

The third film, Bender's Game, I found myself drifting through, then fast-forwarding through it, and finally I switched it off without finishing it. It made me angry to see just how much Futurama was losing it's way.

After watching this "final" film, Into the Wild Green Yonder, it felt like the tone, pace and style of Futurama had come full circle. Much more like it! If you just skip the middle two films, the first and last of these four will make a great and worthy additions to your Futurama collection. I don't want to spoil the plot, but the pace is tight (unlike the detours of the last two) and there are some really funny jokes too. In short, Fry is able to read minds and wears a tinfoil hat for most of the film!

Perhaps the Writer's Guild strike hurt the middle two films, or perhaps the Futurama folks just lost their way momentarily. So what is next? Everyone seems to want a sixth season of episodes, and it is increasingly likely that this will happen soon. As long as the writers don't forget the show's roots (it is easy to forget that Fry came from 1999 and is still a bit of a fish out of water and should retain some wonder at the world he lives in), keep the characters real, and mix in some of the new zeitgeist of the Obama era (Futurama started at a time when it looked like the nerdy environmentalist Al Gore was about to become President - that future never materialised, which perhaps led towards the show's demise as the mood of the era went far darker.) But with Obama in power, the future looks decidedly Futurama - and the time is perfect for Fox to bring back this show!! As Bender has said "We're Back Baby!!!"