I watched this movie for the first time one day after watching "Wings" for the first time. It was striking how similar this movie's plot was to "Wings." I did some very minimal research, to see if both were based on the same novel or story, but couldn't find any reference. One could be forgiven for thinking the resemblance was too close to be coincidental.

This movie started shooting as a silent, but was largely re-shot as a "talkie" when that technology overtook the production. There are some scenes left in that are clearly from the silent shots, noticeable by the sped-up look of them, was well as the framing and acting style. Not a negative in my opinion, just a bit of fun to look for film trivia. Another quirk of switching to sound is that some of the actors playing English characters speak with totally undisguised American accents. Just had to accept it while watching, but it was distracting. It took me a while before I decided there was no back story as to why the American accents, just an early "talkie" thing, a lack of sophistication in producers and audiences.

One big plus in the switch to sound was Jean Harlow being cast as the love/lust interest. The Norwegian accent of the actress set to do the silent version was too much, it seems, even for this accent relaxed production. Jean Harlow is amazingly sexual. Her character had the morals of an alley cat, and is audacious in her pursuit of a man she wants to sleep with. Jean oozes sex. Not in the vulnerable way that Marilyn Monroe did, or the "girls just want to have fun" way of a Clara Bow. Jean's character is dangerous, she describes her own behavior as "caddish" (look it up). Exactly. Dishonest, hurtful, absolutely selfish. And Jean didn't hold back in her performance at all. The color(!) party scene is magnificent, and the private time with Monte afterward is one of the sexiest scenes ever.

Frankly, the other performances are uninteresting. The plot is nothing special, and has more than a couple of plot holes. Additionally, I was bothered by Monte's bizarre power over women. He is not more charming, rich, outgoing, athletic, etc, than any of the other characters, yet for unexplained reasons women literally throw themselves at him. Weird. Monte is the only character that actually changes over the course of the film, and his trajectory is downward. The other characters are largely one dimensional cut-outs, who don't grow at all.

Besides Jean Harlow, the other thing that makes this a must see are the action sequences. I don't usually recommend films based on special effects or action. However, the aerial fights are so exceptional in this film that they need to be seen. Real planes. Lots of them. Dog fighting. That will never be done again. While modern CGI can do marvelous things, CGI effects just aren't as emotionally engaging as actual humans doing the scenes.

Classic movie? Not in my opinion. Wings was a much better film, far more character development, and the tear jerker ending worked better (can't say more without major spoilers). Wings lacked the "price is no object" budget of Hell's Angels, so the action scenes are slightly less spectacular, but still impressive.  See both, they are both worth a couple of hours.