What the heck is wrong with Disney?!?!?  The ONLY version worth buying is the Original VHS release... TRUST ME.  Back a couple years when the first DVD release was made, it was quickly discovered to be CUT and ALTERED for younger audiences.  First, in the scene early in the film where Baby Herman throws a fit on the movie set.  In the original version, he walks under a woman's legs and sticks his arm up her dress and says "Excuse me Toots!".  On that DVD, Baby Herman's arm was re-drawn so it just stays by his side!  Another scene is when Valiant first meets Jessica Rabbit.  When he first enters the Toon Strip Club, we can see that Betty Boob is onstage with her shirt off and she's shaking her b%%b$ (don't get excited, her back is to the camera).  This scene is completely CUT from the DVD.  Later in the film when Jessica Rabbit and Valiant are riding on the car in Toontown... the car screeches out of control and crashes, throwing Valiant and Jessica onto the streets.  For a second or two in the original version, it was VERY obvious that Jessica had NO underwear on and the dress was very wide-legged.  In that first DVD, they added white underwear.  NOW WE HAVE THIS VISTA SERIES DVD!!  The version that they tote on TV as the "Definitive version"... AHH, yeah right.  They HAVE gone back and fixed Baby Herman's arm.  Now his arm reaches back up the dress.  THANK YOU.  But the scene of Betty Boob is still cut!!  Not only that, but the scene with Jessica being thrown from the car has been RE-DRAWN!!  Now her dress has been extended so that it is now pulled down revealing nothing!!  These scenes may sound like "No big deal" to the average viewer, but what of us who love WHO FRAMED ROGER RABBIT?  What of us who want the film we remember seeing??  Altering this film is just as offensive as what Lucas has done to STAR WARS!!  Take my advice and STEER THOUSANDS OF MILES AWAY from this trite.  If we all demand that we want ROGER RABBIT the way it WAS, and refuse to buy this new "Kid-Friendly" version... maybe Disney will take notice.  Maybe...