Bernie is funny as hell--I can watch him all day.  Ashton is sweet, and bumbling.  Zoe is cute.  Ashton and Zoe make a beautiful couple.  The racist joke-scene is excellent.  The metrosexual stuff is clever, and upon second viewing very funny.

The problems (and there are problems) with this movie have been touched on somewhat by the other reviewers, but I shall try to lay them to rest here once and for all by nailing them on the head.

First, the film takes the wrong approach to the race issue by modeling "MEET THE PARENTS" rather than "GUESS WHO'S COMING TO DINNER."  This film should have been less misleadingly named "MEET THE BLACK PARENTS."  The chosen approach, as it is, makes parental approval of "the boy" the focus of the film, rather than the larger issue of societal approval of "the interracial union."  There is a big difference between our cheering for Bernie to accept this sweet, noble kid (and how could he not?) and our applauding of societal change.

Second, the film is blatantly dishonest in a manner typical of sitcoms.  As we all know, in order to garner laughs week after week, the sitcom offers a watered-down, "safe", toothless reflection of contemporary truth.  Everybody seems to get along.  The problems are always superficial and the main characters can always point to someone off-set as "the cause of the world's ills."  There are too few exceptions to this rule--"All in the Family," "The Jeffersons," "Good Times"--and even they become watered down after the first few seasons and start feeling "safe."

And there is the key to this movie's dishonesty.  We feel safe watching it.  Why is that?  Why do we Americans (with our history) feel safe watching a movie about race?  We do NOT feel safe watching the original "GUESS WHO'S COMING TO DINNER," not at all, despite the genuine humor in it.  We feel safe with this one because we know right up front that the premise is not . . . honest.  It's funny, true, silly as heck, true, but not honest: a successful black man is upset because his daughter has brought home a fiance who is handsome, well-mannered, successful and white.  I'm sorry.  I must have missed something here.  Where is the big problem with THAT?

See, for white people this is an issue, but for blacks it is a mere shrug and then dismissal.  The boy is white.  So what.  Most of us have some white in us from way back, if you know what I mean.  Look at how fair skinned some of us are. Look at how fair skinned MOST of us are compared to our brethren straight from Africa.  Oh, every now and then there'll be a snide remark about the boy.  Some jealousy.  Maybe even something a bit stronger.  But for the most part, THAT relationship, as far as African American kin are concerned, will go unnoticed in the course of things.

This is not to say that African Americans are not racist.  In many ways African Americans are just as racist as white Americans.  But it is only in the world of TV and movies do black people show THIS PARTICULAR kind of racist sentiment to such a degree that it is worth writing a screenplay about.  Our history tells us that American racism prevented blacks who could afford to from living in neighborhoods with whites of similar earning power.  Our history tells us that American racism prevented blacks from working at jobs they were qualified to do simply because they were not white.  Our history tells us that American racism prevented blacks from attending colleges that they had been accepted into simply because they were not white.  Finally, our history tells us that American racism prevented blacks from marrying people that they were in love with if those people had white skin.  See where I'm going with this?

The point is that African Americans, believe it or not, have been fighting since 1865 and then 1968 to live where they could afford to live, to work at jobs they were qualified to hold, to attend colleges that they had been accepted into, and to wed, white or black, those that they had fallen in love with.

Do you see the dishonesty now?  Making a movie about a successful black man who does not want his daughter to marry the good, clean, honest man she loves, black or white, is sort of like making a movie about a well educated black man who does not want his bright, gifted child to attend Harvard or Yale or any other top school the child has been accepted into.  "What?  How dare you turn down your Spellman scholarship for Harvard!  I am so upset with you!"  Well, I'm sure it does happen from time to time, but not often enough to make a fuss (or a big budget movie) about.