I surely do not wish to show any disrespect to any of you who love this film and think of it as a "certain classic," yet I must disagree.  Hey, everyone's a critic.
I am a huge fan of Cameron (except that  "King of the World" acceptance speech).  Everything from  Terminators to Aliens, and even Titanic (which I thought was a great love  story).
This being said - I must say that this is a terribly overrated  film.  
But first: The acting is quite good.  Ed Harris, Mary Elizabeth  Mastrantonio, and Michael Beihn, as well as an exceptional supporting cast,  are great and very well cast.  Given that it's Cameron, the technical  aspects are all top notch.  (I heard much of this was filmed in the largest  tank built, at that time, covered with a few inches of black plastic ball  bearing sized balls to create the darkness.)  
The basic story is good  enough.  Deepwater oil workers are the only way to do a rescue of a downed  submarine.  The navy has not been forthright, though.  They have other  plans.  This of course creates the conflict.  OK so far.
What really bugs  me about this movie (besides the ending, which I'll get to later) is that  it tries too hard.  It almost seems as if the aliens (there are aliens in  this movie who live under the sea) were introduced because the basic story  line wasn't enough to make a whole movie from.  From the moment the aliens  are introduced, (and by the way, the aliens are great effects - they look  really cool), they exist as a distraction.  Cameron really handles their  participation in the plot poorly.  They only serve as to represent  morality, offer the special effects portion of the film, and confirm who  are the good guys (as if we couldn't figure that out on our own).  The  storyline becomes increasingly unbelievable, unreasonable and unlikeable.  (Which is too bad, because it starts out well.)  This leads to . . .
The  ending may be the worst ending ever in a movie ever.  Ever!  (Unless they  make the ending of the upcoming Hannibal the same as the book.)  From the  build up of tension, which is fairly believable, the ending is just such a  letdown.  Completely not believable on several levels.  It would be unfair  to spoil the plot for those of you who might actually enjoy it, but look  for the line, "They must have done something to us!"  This is  truly awful.  Awful!
This is not a bad movie, just not a terribly  successful movie.  There are much better Cameron movies out there (some  mentioned above), and much better DVDs for your hard earned money.