Everyone can remember that one moment in time from which we despised the opposite sex and viewed them as "gross" or "disgusting" to the moment when we fall hopelessly in love.  Often, this occurs so quickly that we don't realize or even understand what has just happened.  There is no rational explanation for a young teenager who suddenly finds him/herself in love.  The body reacts in new ways that are foreign, exciting, and confusing.  Young teens often resist these feelings at first because they are now in completely new territory.

Dani is a 14-year-old girl (brilliantly played in her debut role by Reese Witherspoon) who lies in bed listening to the man of her dreams on a record player: Elvis.  She has posters of Elvis all over her side of the bedroom.  She is at that viable age when she's asked to take on more responsibilities around the house, but runs off to her favorite swimming hole on hot summer days.  It is at this age that Dani is in the transition of moving from a young girl to a young woman.  It is a confusing time that brings more questions than answers.

Dani looks up to her older sister, Maureen, who is seventeen.  She often asks Maureen about the future.  Maureen is an attractive young woman who is planning to take her academic talents to Duke.  Maureen is also confused, but she is more worried about the unknowns that loom in the future.  Maureen is a romantic.  She has had limited experience with boys, who all have eyes for her, but she is waiting for that one boy to come in and sweep her off of her feet.  She views life and love through her windows of idealism.

The irony with both girls is that while Maureen tries her best to explain to Dani what being in love is like, what the strange feelings are, how to kiss a boy, etc., she, herself, has never really been in love either.  It is likely she has had infatuations and crushes, but with boys who just never live up to her expectations.  Billy Sanders, her current date, is borderline despicable in the way he treats her, or rather, mistreats her.

Enter Court Foster, a young boy who is Maureen's age, who moves into a neighboring farm with his widowed mother and two little brothers.  He is a hard-working boy who has more or less assumed the fatherly role.  He works at the run-down farm all day trying to get it repaired and up-and-running.  Court inadvertently runs into Dani while she is skinny-dipping at her swimming hole.  At first, they don't like each other much, but it isn't long before Dani can't think of anyone else.  However, the three-year gap is more than enough for the viewer to realize that, while Court is very fond of Dani, it is hard to conceive of anything ever growing from it.

Dani suffers from being naïve and inexperienced, which is natural for her age.  Court finally meets Maureen, and from the get-go, it is clear much to Dani's dismay, that they are attracted to each other.  Dani doesn't take it well, and she views it more of a betrayal on Maureen's part than Court's.  After all, Maureen knew of Dani's feelings toward Court, even though Court explains to Maureen that he just doesn't feel the same way, even though he is very fond of Dani.  Before long Maureen and Court are falling deeply in love.

The story takes place in the late 50s, when minding and obeying your parents was the way of life.  Matthew and Abigail Trant are strict but loving parents.  Matthew does not tolerate any kind of back-talk or questioning from his children.  The kids have jobs and chores to do, and they are expected to do them without complaint.  Even communication holds a strict d&eacute;cor as the kids are expected to always address their parents as "sir" or "ma'am."

Sam Waterston is simply magnificent as Matthew Trant.  This is my favorite role of his.  He portrayed Matthew as a complex, discipline-minded father who also loves his children.  Tess Harper is equally effective as Abigail.

Robert Mulligan, the director, is known for taking on realistic projects, often involving some kind of teen angst in which a teen is growing and experiencing new feelings for the first time.  He also directed "Summer of `42" which was also a story about a young boy falling in love with a woman who was older than he was.  As with that film, we find that as a teen, there is no explanation for these feelings.  They happen, and it doesn't matter how illogical or irrational those feelings may be.  Most people, I have found, have experienced this at some point.  Dani also falls into this category.  She is too young to date, as her father points out, and she often has no idea how to effectively express her feelings toward Court, but she tries nonetheless.

Something occurs within the realm of the story that I will not divulge here for anyone who has not seen this film.  It is important that the viewer's reaction be genuine.  While the story may appear to be about young love (and much of the story is about that), the heart is actually in the power and the bond between sisters.  Matthew Trant points out to Dani, "You and Maureen are going to be sisters for a long time."  Young love can often test the bonds of any other relationship because within the eyes of the beholder, nothing else matters, and no one else matters as much as the object of your affection.  Remember those high school days when a friend began a relationship with someone and you hardly ever heard from the person again?  Young love, especially first-time love, is often so overwhelming that you cannot think of anyone else.

The Man in the Moon handles the relationships aspects with frightening realism and accuracy.  Perhaps that is why so many people can relate to the characters in this film because most of us have been there and experienced what these two sisters experience from the standpoint of first love.