Ok, I'm not a professional movie critic (although my family tells me all the time I should have been) so I won't give a wordy detail by detail review of this entire film.
Let me say that this has been one of, if not my absolute favourite films of all time, since I was about 5 and first saw it on HBO or Cinemax many years ago. Kurt Russel became one of my first loves/heroes after I saw this. It is truly a movie of the 80's since it has both a cool soundtrack, and a very witty one-of-a-kind story plot that you just won't find today in the world of big budget over done action thrillers with an emphasis on sex. It's pleasing to see how many others share my feelings about this movie and also adore it even now. Some movies just aren't suppoesd to be that big ground breaking money maker, some are just supposed to be fun and enjoyable and it's movies like these, with hilarious one-liners, that you never forget. The one liners in this film are the kind that become lifelong inside jokes to be repeated and laughed about by your and your friends always. That is alot more fun to me than a movie that made alot of money just because of the all star big shot cast and multi trillion dollar budget!! If you approach every new movie with the expectations that it will be one of those with great effects and pristine acting and cinematography, you'll likely overlook many great films that just really have down to earth stories and better acting atleast, than most people who aren't paid to act could probably do.
Kurt Russel is great in this, he is such a pro and because of his long background in acting (since childhood people) he is one of those actours that can play any part and not have to worry about tarnishing a type-cast image. From Snake Pliskin to Jack Burton to Dean Proffit, who else could play those roles? Kim Cattrall to me has never been a terrific actress, even in Mannequin (there's another one of those good old 80's classics. And for those of you who have the nerve to complain about something like poor acting in any film, you have no room to complain here since so many seem to idolize her in Sex and the City.
For those of you who saw this as children and loved it and grew up with an interest in Chinese culture, you're not alone. This classic Friday night with pizza kind of movie is worth a try if you've never seen it, but don't expect it to be The Godfather or anything or you won't be able to enjoy it. Take Care BTLC lovers;)