I collect Walken films (there are over 200), and this is the movie that started it all for me. The prophecy brings together all the elements that Christopher Walken is famous for: lizard looks from space, the original rambling frightening dialogue replete with facial twitches and gestures frequently displayed by the criminally psychotic, and fluid performances that are spellbinding in intensity.
 Walken's memorable character is Gabriel, the sometimes brutal angel portrayed as the heavy for some of the bloodier scenes from the old testament. As a result of some his nastier accomplishments (slaughtering all the first born male babies in Egypt for example) Gabriel has gone a bit daft in trying to contemplate the reason for it all. He draws the conclusion that it all is because God is fascinated with man, and does not like him anymore. He states that the ultimate evidence of this is that God no longer talks to him, and has not for ages. So, to regain God's attention, Gabriel declares war on man in a fit of jealousy that dwarfs all his prior acts by far, because it is All Man's Fault.
 Gabriel gathers together his "mob" of recalcitrant angels and wreaks havoc on earth. He refuses to allow the souls of men to go to heaven, or hell, which draws the attention of Satan, who really thought the whole war was silly to begin with, but wants his due. Added to this apocalyptic mix is an opposing faction of angels who are convinced that Gabriel must be stopped because God's will, regardless of whether anyone agrees with it or not, must be obeyed. 
 Caught in the midst of Gabriel's war are men, who are helpless in the face of his divine fury and the victims of Gabriel's acid sense of humor and malevolent plots to destroy mankind. Walken shines as the preening, murderous, insane Gabriel who refers to people as "monkeys" and "filthy bags of flesh" that must be the result of God's affections gone horribly wrong.
 This is the second time the actor was cast as a supernatural being. The first time Walken appeared on screen as an "angel" or spirit was in Madonna's "Bad Girl" video in 1992 (this is currently available on DVD as part of the Madonna - Video Collection 1993-99 ) . The Prophecy dates from 1995, and has thus far spawned three surprisingly good sequels depicting the evolution of the war, Gabriel's angelic fate, and man's participation in the ultimate fulfillment of the Prophecy.
 According to the actor, Gabriel to date, is his favorite all-time role. No small statement considering the impressive catalog of movies Walken has appeared in.