This is no Braveheart, where the characters believe so wholeheartedly in the cause of war that it makes all the tragedies of war worthwhile.  I think this is one of the more realistic, epic war stories I've seen in a while.  The movie's characters are driven by the urge to survive the disasters visited upon them (brought on by the Civil War), and faith in love is what they use to keep their courage to live on from giving out.

Nicole Kidman and Jude Law play Ada Munroe and W.P. Inman (respectively) and their romance has barely begun to bud before he's shipped off to fight in the Civil War.  Ada is a classic southern belle and a minister's daughter who has just moved to the rural town of Cold Mountain from Charleston.  After Ada's father dies, she's left in charge of their farm and she finds survival difficult.  In her words, she says, "I can embroider but I can't darn.  I can arrange cut flowers but I can't grow them... I can name the principle rivers in Europe but don't ask me to name a single stream in this county."  With no hope to fall back on, she relies on her fond memories of Inman to lend her enough faith to continue on and learn to survive in Cold Mountain.  Nicole Kidman portrays the helpless southern belle perfectly, and her character makes a believable transition into a credible farm owner.

Renee Zellweger steals the show with her Ruby Thewes--a young, no-nonsense working woman is sent to Ada to help her run the farm.  Ruby teaches Ada how to get her hands dirty and work.  Renee lends her character terrific spunk, and plays the role of a hard-on-the-outside, but soft-on-the-inside tomgirl wonderfully.

The real love story is between Ada and Ruby.  It is, of course, not romantic love, but familial love.  Nicole and Renee pair together wonderfully and make a credible duo of two women trying to survive winter at their farm, and it's heartwarming to watch the two grow closer to form a new family.  Indeed, the real love that blossoms in this movie isn't between Ada and Inman, it's between Ada and Ruby.  It's also terrific fun to watch how Ruby's influence toughens up Ada, and Ada softens Ruby.  In the beginning of their relationship, for example, Ruby criticizes Ada for toting around a novel, since she can't see the point of carrying around a book you can't write in.  Before long, Ada begins reading to Ruby at night and Ruby ends up pestering Ada to keep reading instead of going to sleep.  You definitely see how the two rub off on each other through the course of the film.

Natalie Portman has a short performance, but it's the most emotionally charged and adult role I've yet to see her perform.  She was fantastic--and this is coming from somebody who has questioned her acting ability countless times.  Ruby's father Stobrod (Brenden Gleeson) and Rev. Veasey (Phillip Hoffman) were also wonderfully cast, and those two are probably the film's two most colorful characters.

Jude Law's Inman does the same with Ada as she does with Inman.  Ada's picture and letters remind him of something worth returning to--thus, gives him a reason to strive to survive the war.  Jude's performance is somber, subtle, serene on the surface, but intense beneath the surface.  He plays the role of the silent, conflicted warrior perfectly, and throughout his performance, you feel that his character is surviving and carrying on only to complete his return to Cold Mountain, as per Ada's request that he come back to her.  He plays his tormented character fantastically, and not to mention realistically.

The lovers are more symbols life before the war to each other than they are actual lovers.  Each lover represents to the other hope that life can go back to the way it was (both possessed memories of each other during happier times before the war began), and, in their minds, their reunion symbolizes the end of the war.  So, it's hardly a mystery as to why two people who were barely lovers and barely knew each other would cling so desperately onto the memories they have of each other as a beacon for hope.

The music was a definite bonus.  I was very impressed with the score and the songs.  In the middle of watching Cold Mountain with my husband, we both mentioned how good the music was and how we wouldn't mind purchasing the soundtrack.  It's not everyday that a movie's soundtrack impresses us so early on during the film.  They capture the feel of the South beautifully, and the music is atmospheric, ambient, bittersweet, lonely, and lovely--just like the film.