Along with the rest of my tenth grade honors English class, I recently watched "Joseph Campell and the power of myth". This interview with Campell, the leading authority on mythology, was both informative and entertaining. Mr. Campell was very well-spoken and authoritative in his speech, and the interview was amusing as well as entertaining. The dialogue between Mr. Bill Moyer and Joseph Campell takes place on Skywalker ranch, owned by George Lucas. Lucas is a close friend of Campell's, and is also the creator of the well-known and popular "Star Wars" movie series.
Interestingly, Campell states that the plot of the "Star Wars" movies follows the traditional pattern of the mythological hero's journey. This journey takes place in many stories, including religious tales. Jesus, Muhammed, and Buddah(Siddhartha) are all alike in the way that they experiance the hero's journey. All depart from the life they know and venture out into a foriegn place to begin their quest. They are then tempted and endure many trials before their return home. The trials that they experiance change their conciousness and are significant to the quest and to their lives in general. After they return and choose diciples, their stories usually end with their deaths, which may or may not be tragic and symbolic.
  Another aspect of the hero's quest dicussed in the video is the manner in which the hero departs on his quest. Some heroes, such as Frodo from "Lord of the Rings" venture into their questknowingly and willingly. However, in some myths, the hero chases an animal which leads him into a strange and foriegn land. One such story is the classic tale of "Alice in Wonderland".
Many heroes must defeat a monster on his quest, such as a dragon. In the myth of Heracules, he destroys many monsters, such as the Hydra and the Nemean lion. These monsters represent the hero's own fears and inner evils. He must conquer these forces within himself in order to complete his quest. By destroying these monsters, he proves himself and becomes completly and wholly good.
Joseph Campell discusses his own hero in the interview, the silent screen star Douglas Fairbanks. Though Campell confesses that he wanted to be like Fairbanks, the  literary world has much to thank Campell for in the area of mythology. I am personally glad that he became the person he did. As Campell said, "A hero is someone who has given his life to something bigger than himself". I think we can all agree that Campell has indeed given his life to the study and exploration  of the meaning of myth. This means, quite simply, that Joseph Campell is himself, a hero.