Plot:  Nick marries Bianca, but a short time later Ellen, (his first wife) turns up after having been stranded on a desert island for seven years.......
My Favorite Wife is a screwball rendering of the Enoch Emery tale, an old saw about a man thought lost at sea, who returns to find his wife remarried. The twist is that it's Ellen Arden (played brilliantly by Irene Dunne) who returns to find that her children don't recognize her and that her husband, Nick (Cary Grant) has remarried to a shrewish bride named Bianca. This complication is enough to fuel the movie for about a half an hour, making the first third of My Favorite Wife one of the most sublimely silly and smoothly acted screwball comedies ever. Dunne and Grant's chemistry in My Favorite Wife (this was their third picture together) is delicious as they take turns acting out and reacting to each other's childish schemes. 
Take the scene where Ellen is first introduced to Bianca. Nick hasn't gotten up the nerve to tell his bride that his first wife's come back, so Ellen pretends to be an old family friend, "from the south." She coos out one musical barb after another while Nick squirms. Cary's scene-stealing reactions to her are perfect. The fearful look in his eyes as he stirs a martini too loudly upon hearing Bianca's version of their wedding night is one of my all-time favorite Cary Grant moments.

Unfortunately for the coherency of film, the Enoch Emery bit didn't provide quite enough material for the entire movie, so some subplots were added. Nick learns that Ellen spent her seven years of exile with a man she called "Adam," played by Uberhunk, Randolph Scott. At first, Ellen convinces a short guy who works at the shoe store to pretend to be Adam, but she is soon found out when the real Adam spots her at lunch with Nick. Then Nick's jealousy prevents the couple from reconciling and of course, Ellen's still got to find a way to explain to her children that she's their mother. Add to this mess, a stereotypical psychiatrist, a bumbling judge and Bianca's hysterical crying and you've got one very busy movie. 
The ending of My Favorite Wife, strongly mirrors the earlier Dunne and Grant hit, The Awful Truth. In some respects its an homage and in other ways, it's just a pale imitation of the earlier classic. Leo McCarey who had directed the Awful Truth was scheduled to make My Favorite Wife, but in one of those "coulda-shoulda-woulda" tragedies of Hollywood, McCarey was hospitalized from a car accident and unable to direct the movie. In places where the plot was clunky it would have been wonderful to have McCarey's off the cuff ad-lib style of directing to keep things breezing along. 
Still, despite its flaws, My Favorite Wife is one of my favorite Cary Grant movies. Dunne and Grant are always watchable and I find something new to love in their performances every time I watch this gem.