The unusual story for "The Penalty" was taken from a novel by a popular author of the early 20th century, but it is the star and legendary character actor, Lon Chaney, who really makes this film unforgettable.  Before his most famous roles as the Hunchback of Notre Dame and the Phantom of the Opera, Chaney's most impressive and highly-acclaimed performance was in this film, "The Penalty", in which he plays a double amputee and criminal mastermind with chilling conviction.  In fact, next to his portrayal of a Chinese man in "Shadows" in 1922, his role in "The Penalty" is probably one of his most striking and poignant, especially as he uses no make-up to disguise his face in this film.  This gives him a chance to express the warped-minded criminal character simply with facial expressions and other gestures, while stunning the audience with his realistic movements on stumps and crutches to portray the accident victim whose legs were amputated at the knees when he was a child.  Swearing hateful revenge for the doctor who needlessly amputated his legs, this frightening criminal character schemes his plots while a female agent goes undercover to find out how he operates.  Although somewhat dark and oppressive due to Chaney's overwhelming performance of the evil `Blizzard', there are still romance and intriguing plots in this interesting, though unlikely, story.  The sombre mood is emphasized by an unusual modern musical score which seems to add some eeriness to the atmosphere.  It is already eerie enough to see Chaney with cut-off legs, even when one knows that he is walking on his knees with his legs tightly strapped back behind him under loose pants and jacket.  There are no tricks or special angles used:  this is just another aspect of Chaney's amazing abilities of transformation which impressed audiences and fellow-actors so much in the 1920s that a humorous phrase was coined, namely "Don't step on that spider - it might be Lon Chaney!"  Such was his physical skill to portray amputees, cripples and disfigurements, and "The Penalty" gives us a fascinating glimpse into this extraordinary art of a unique silent film legend.  To highlight this point, this DVD has some interesting bonus material which provides ample background information to the film, as well as excerpts from other rare old films in which Chaney appeared.  In itself an excellent example of a silent film, the picture quality of "The Penalty" is also very good throughout, and with the exceptional music and Chaney's outstanding performance, this DVD rates full marks and will surely leave a deep impression on every viewer.