This production of the Hatfields and McCoys is excellent. It is based on the real feud between the two families. It has an ALL-STAR cast. Everyone truly did an excellent job. It was very thorough and explanatory. I caught myself sympathizing for both families in the beginning, but towards the end...well just watch and come to your own conclusion.

I started the series on the third night (I had previously DVR'd the other two), and I had to finish them all. They were that good. It kept you interested the ENTIRE movie, wanting more, and hoping...(If you weren't familiar with the ending) that your favorite characters would survive.

Take into consideration, the way we live today is very different from how things were back then. The Civil War had just ended, times were tough. You grew your own food, raised your own crops, etc. You couldn't go down to the local fast-food joint. Little things like 'stealing land' or 'pigs' was enough to 'light the fuse' that would eventually turn into an all-out feud. That was your livelihood.

Every actor/actress involved in this miniseries did an excellent job; however, hats off to Tom Berenger! I kept seeing his name at the beginning of the movie and kept wondering whom his character was. After completing the series, I finally 'googled' it and was surprised to learn he was Jim Vance. He did such an outstanding job with portraying Jim's character and accent,(The costume/makeup helped, of course), that I couldn't even tell it was Berenger. After knowing this and re-watching, I noticed little things that gave him away. But, superb job to ALL. Johnse's character (Matt Barr), Devil Anse (Kevin Costner), Mccoy (Bill Paxton), were ALL believable, as well as the rest of the cast. Everyone was important and ALL were believable.

This was a beautiful portrayal of the Hatfields, McCoys, the time period, etc. It flowed really well. It was easily understandable. I could find no flaws. The costumes were authentic, even the language/slang/incorrect grammar was authentic time period. A truly wonderful movie/portrayal of the real feud, and I highly recommend it to those who are interested in knowing more about it, or to those who simply like historical movies. A very good, high-quality, well-made movie!