MY RATING- 6.7
Well, let's begin to say the attitudes and reviews towards this mov here in Portugal, were mediocre-good as it always happens with a Tim Burton mov.
I wasn't that interested in this, I only enjoyed his Batman flicks, yet the other night they had it on tv, so I couldn't miss it. In general, it's a good mov, mildly entertaining, but not the best Burton has given to us.
The starting point is, as someone has said, the parody of the old fears of 50's sfifi movs, the hysteria a la Orson Welles on alien invasion and dealing with the invaders. And Tim manages to do it well with his typical twisted view to show the hysteria that would cause an martian attack.
We see a great deal of massacre by the aliens, runaways, different views on the attacks and some funny "experiences" like Sarah Jessica Parker with a dog's body or Bondian cientist Pierce Brosnan! In fact, the way of destroying the aliens come from an old tune from Sylvia Sidney radio! What a twist!
Well, the mov has so many different stars, that only a couple of them create a whole new scene. Some of them appear in almost cameos- De Vito, in a minimum role, Anette Benning, as the neohippy wife of cowboy Jack Nicholson who also stars as the U.S President. In fact, only Nicholson and Glenn Close get the status of stars. Others include Rod Steiger (one of my fave actors), the now-adored Natalie Portman, a grown up Lukas Haas (from Witness), Joe Don Baker, the old lady Sylvia Sidney (loved her in the 30's movs!), Martin Short and attention to the silent appearance of Lisa Marie (Burton's girlfriend) as the female alien. Even Tom Jones appears to sing in the new world "It's Not Unsual" after escaping with Benning in a plane! Well, maybe his presence has somekind of meaning about not being unusual that some of these days we get invaded by aliens. 
Overall, it's a nice mov, it's not even the best of the director, yet a must to anyone who enjoys his mad sense of humor, like me. However i as well as many others prefer Pee Wee's Big Adventure--