That line is the one everyone remembers from this 1982 classic farce about the early days of television. What I remember is it was one of the first movies I took a date to, and for that reason I will always have good feelings about this movie.
Besides that, "My Favorite Year" is further proof of my theory that the three great crimes of the 20th century were the Lindbergh kidnapping, the Great Train Robbery and the Academy not giving Peter O'Toole an Oscar for "Lawrence of Arabia." O'Toole IS this movie, from the moment his Alan Swann wakes up blurry-eyed in a stewardess' bed to the last wave of the sword. He delivers some of the funniest lines in screwball comedy history, and brings you to tears with his mournful gaze at the daughter he has not had the nerve to speak to in years. It is his story that drives the movie, how an irresponsible womanizing actor finds the hero within himself.
Around O'Toole is an assorted cast of real characters, from Joseph Bologna's blustery King Kaiser (an obvious takeoff from Sid Caesar) to Selma Diamond's costumer (who sets up a classic O'Toole line by saying, "This is for ladies only!") to Bill Macy's cranky head writer. The movie is told through the eyes of young writer Benjy Stone (Mark Linn-Baker), who idolizes Stone and is assigned to keep him sober for the week. Linn-Baker (whose character was reportedly based on Mel Brooks) delivers his one-liners with zing, but ultimately is overshadowed by O'Toole. The only actor who stands a chance is Bologna, who turns his scenes into tour de forces, such as his face-off with a corrupt union leader who comes to complain about a sketch.
The weakest part of the movie, sadly, is the romance between Benjy and K.C. (the woefully underused Jessica Harper). There's just no substance to it, and the scene when they first kiss is played as stares as they watch clips from Swann's movies. They go from acquaintances to lovers far too quickly. The only good thing about it is it sets up the rooftop sequence later in the film. 
That aside, this is a great coming-of-age story about movie fan Benjy and his idol Swann. Only it is not Benjy who really grows up as the movie unfolds ... it is Swann.