There is no arguing that the DTS sound on this DVD places it at or near the top of the best sound DVD has to offer.

Every song is exceptional in quality.

The extra "Seven Bridges Road" audio only track pushes the separation of speaker sound to the limit as each speaker has a different band member singing his part.

Unlike most DVD concerts, the rear speakers actually contain instruments and not just audience applause between songs.

I only have high marks to give for the concert portion of this DVD.

However, there is ONE item that I find disappointing.

The first few chapters of the disk contains footage of the Eagles working closely with orchestra members to fine-tune everything for the live show. When a trial run doesn't meet with Don Henley's approval, he makes it known, very sarcastically right there for all to see on the DVD, saying something like: "these guys are supposed to be professionals".

From what I've read about this concert, the Eagles were allowed to restart every time they had a mistake during the concert. But we don't get to see any of that on disk, DO we? Instead, we are "treated" to Mr. Henley speaking negatively about someone in the string section of the orchestra. I can't help but think that those who played in the orchestra on this DVD would more than likely want a copy of their own to show their friends and relatives. But think about what the poor guy who Henley was ridiculing must think every time he hears that?

If you're like me, you more than likely don't even play the DVD from the beginning anyway, but rather, go straight to the actual concert footage. So you seldom hear Henley's comment, if ever. I personally think that while Don had a right to say it, it should never have made it to the DVD. If they can hide Don's mistakes in the concert, why make something out of an "unknown orchestra member" and his or her slip up?

It's because of that incident that I give this DVD 4 stars instead of the 5 I think it truly would deserve otherwise.

Watch your mouth Don! You're not perfect yourself, you know!