Check this out: I was dating this chick when the film first came out on video. It was her idea to rent it, though friends had been telling me to check it out for a while. Well, anyway, the gal I was dating fell asleep 25 minutes into the show. I thought I knew EXACTLY what kind of a movie we'd rented, a sort of gritty, drugstore cowboy kind of thing about the cruelties of extreme living. I was determined to hate it. I mean, come on, look at the cover? Sure looks like it's the story of how hip it is to be haggard, doesn't it? One of those two is going to be strung out on smack, right?
WRONG! 
Everything that I expected to happen in this film didn't. I kept expecting a violent and vulgar twist at any moment, but it never came. Attempted suicide or a spiraling bout of depression? Never came. And thank God. I think I breathed an audible sigh of relief when the credits rolled, not because the film was difficult to watch, but because the characters make it to the end without trodding through any of the played out routines that seemed always about to manifest. The characters glow with a genuine sense of innocence that I've rarely seen in film. It seems so easy for writers to stuff scripts with loads of vulgarity. This SEEMED like it was going to be one of those movies, but it wasn't. It doesn't need to be.
Great film. Really great film. Very sweet and surprising. And hey, if you hate televised sporting events (and what reasonable person doesn't?) then you'll be more than sympathetic to Billy's plight. God bless Billy Brown!
And, hey, sure was nice to see Jan Michael Vincent getting some post-Air Wolf work to pay off the debt he incurred for the creation of his new face. In an alternate universe, I think he really does work the counter at a bowling alley.
Oh, yeah, and that relationship of mine that I mentioned earlier? It went nowhere. Those things happen. I can honestly say discovering this film was the best thing that came out of it. May you be so lucky when your next relationship decides to transform itself into a metaphor for a skin graft.