This film is very convincingly made and extremely funny. The hero is of course, Garfield, but this time, he is also supplemented by a second version of himself who happens to live in a manor house in the rural English countryside, somewhere near London. Both cats, of course, call the shots in their respective homes, at least where their own well being is concerned. Garfield 1 rules over his owner, or primary care giver (played by Breckin Mayer), as Garfield calls him and his other little puppy, Odie, in a New York apartment. Garfield 2, also called Prince, rules over the manor house and enjoys a special status over the animals living there.

It so happens that Prince inherits the manor after its' owner passes on. This enrages Lord Dargis (played by Billy Connolly) who expected to be the heir. Dargis loses no chance to get Prince out of the way. But cats have at least nine lives, if not more. Both cats work together, in tandem with Jon (Garfield's owner) and his veterinarian girlfriend (played by Jennifer Love Hewitt), and a host of other animals, to finally outwit the villainous Dargis and take over the rightful ownership of the manor. The animals in the manor are saved from being sold, or eaten and can thrive under the benign reign of Prince. Incidentally Prince ends up getting to appreciate the taste of Garfield's favourite food, lasagna.

This ridiculously funny and slapstick film is mood changing. It demonstrates what we all know on a subtle level, but have collectively forgotten, namely, that animals have rights which need to be respected as much as our own, otherwise they can also unite and collectively defeat the toughest Goliath. That a little cat, with a strong ego, and a heart of gold can be a convincing David and do it, almost by a wave of the hand. For cats, as a species, have little doubt, over their own ability to handle tricky situations, even though circumstances CAN get a little unmanageable at times. According to them, there is absolutely no need to worship human beings for the care they provide as that degenerate species, passing for a man's best friend (dog) is wont to do. Humans are to be kept in place, and allowed to be useful, as a good care-giver, for instance. They should absolutely not be allowed to get out of hand. Only the refined skills of a 'Garfield' are upto such a delicate balancing act.

My children and I enjoyed the film very much. We recommend it strongly.