This is an excellent film, and I am impressed by the technical and historical accuracy.  The inexperience of the men, the backgrounds of the officers, and even the props were correct to a fine degree of detail.  Everything covered in this film was covered well, but the film makers neglected to mention what happened to the battalion commander, Charles Wittlesey, after the war.  Under the circumstances, I suggest that this should not have been left out.  It could have at least been addressed by some of the text at the end of the film--so cheaply that I have to conclude that the ommission was intentional.  If so, this is to be regretted.

As pointed out in the text at the end of the film, Major (later Lieutenant Colonel), Charles Wittlesey was awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor, along with two of his officers, after this awful battle.  But this was not the end of the story.

Other honors were bestowed upon him.  After the war, General Pershing called him one of the "three outstanding heroes of the AEF."  He served as a pall bearer for the opening of the "Tomb of the Unknown Soldier" in Washington.  He was Chairman of the Red Cross Roll Call.  But most telling of all were the circumstances of his death, almost exactly three years after the war.

Depressed by requests for help from soldiers and widows, about whom he felt responsible and helpless at the same time, he commited suicide on 29 November 1921, after putting his private and professional affairs in meticulous order.

It is regrettable that this fact was not at least mentioned in this very fine film.  It was considered important enough at the time to be mentioned at LTC Wittlesey's memorial observance by Major General Alexander, Commanding General of the 77th Division during the war, in the context that LTC Wittlesey was as much a casualty of the war as he would have been had he died in the trenches.

It would have been simple to include this, and it is a pity that this was omitted.  Otherwise, I have nothing but praise for this film--one of the best about the Great War.