Shrek is the best kind of a comedy. From the opening credits to the last moment of screentime I was laughing my head off in fear I'd wet my pants. It rips on Disney big time, but that's one of its greatest treats. From the multible occurences of fairytale creatures (most of whom are convently from a Disney movie) to Lord Farccads (sp?) kingdom which bares a strange resembelence to Disney World, this movie understands the pleasure in a good ol fashion Mouse Bashing (and why not with the poorly made sequals Disney has been poping out with recently that insult their earlier masterpieces just to make some MORE money).
Some people may claim this movie is not approperate for children. People, there are only two "pottie" jokes in this feature, one in the opening credits that I missed the first time I watched it. There's really only one reference that I wouldn't let my cousions watch, the part upon seeing Lord what's his names castle and Shrek goes "Do you think he's making up for something?" (well actually they touch on that joke again when the Donkey goes "and I think Shrek means he thinks Lord something has a really small-). That's why it's rated PG. Besides these jokes, everything else is perfectly fine for children who I'm sure have seen Disney movies and are perfectly capable of laughing at them. 
I personally found Shrek lovable. He's this old grouch, but it's so refreshing to see a hero in a animated movie with a temper. As the Donkey says "You've got that I don't care what nobody thinks of me thing, I like that. I respect that". So do I. The Donkey had me in stiches. Many of his jokes would not be funny on paper, but are funny because Eddie Murphy is a comical genius. Ex: "I like that boulder. That is a nice boulder" The princess is sassy, and adds heart to this feature. The Lord guy has some great visual gags, although the gingerbread man really stole a lot of scenes from him.
I've heard some people bash this movie because they think the "true" theme is the opposite of what it seems to be. Namely, that the movie is REALLY saying fat, ugly people deserve to be with other fat, ugly people. Honestly, I think this is a case where people delve too deeply into a work of arts message. Shrek needed a plot twist. If Princess Fiana stayed a princess the second act would have had no conflict. Shrek do not concentrate on "theme", it doesn't take itself seriously as few comedies do. It concentrates on laughter, jokes and being a funny movie (which it is). My favorite scene? The look on Shrek's face after the "It's a Small World" number. Priceless.