Even though it didn't get any support in Mongolia, I watched it since I'm a history movie buff ... and I hated it.

The reason why it didn't get any support in Mongolia is, because Sergei Bodrov, the director guy, said he was gonna show it in his movie that as if Genghis Khan, (it's actually Chinghis khaan, but whatever makes you guys feel comfortable), was captured by the Chinese and lived as their prisoner for 10 years. The Mongols took it as an insult on the whole Mongol nation, since almost all Mongolian academics don't think he was a prisoner. This "prisoner-for-10-years" part of Genghis's life is highly disputed one among the many other foreign historians. But it's not the reason that I hated the movie since I think he could've been a prisoner, because some of the most respected historians said he was.

Now I tell you why I hated the movie.

First, it shows as if Genghis's 2 older kids (Sergei Bodrov only shows 2 in the movie) were bastards that were fathered by some Chinese merchants and what nots. How much more can you insult the man and twist the story of a man who is considered as nation's father. Since I can assure you that I read lot more books on Mongols' history than Bodrov has, I can say for sure that "I KNOW all 4 boys, who later divided the empire up after their father's death, were Genghis's!"

Then, also it didn't show much of the nomadic warriors' armors & etc. from that era, like the way it was. Typical Russian portrayal of the Mongols as if they were bunch of nothing-but-fur-wearing, half-barbarian, hairy dwarves! Talk about the revenge for being dominated for some hundred years, huh?

Just to mention few. I mean if someone's gonna make historical movie make it the way it was. Don't change it, twist it, mispresent it! Compared to this, "300" may look more realistic. :D Just kidding.

But seriously, Mr. Bodrov, I understand you're in entertainment business, and you love fantasizing things. But if you're reading this, I hope you think about the decisions you made already, and I hope the sequels you're gonna make for this movie come closer to the reality.

ADD: I just read Bodrov's interview on the newspaper. When he was asked about whether there is a book that was written by the Mongols on the Mongols history, he flat out said "NO." So what about "the Secret History of the Mongols?" What more can I say about this man's "historically-accurate-fantasy-movie?"