The 2003 release of Seasons 1 and 2 from Michael Landon's "Little House on the Prairie" was the beginning of a very successful marketing tool that has allowed all 9 seasons to receive their DVD glory in less than 3 years. The final three movies, which are sometimes referred to as a "mini Season 10," are also scheduled to come out this summer, so long-time fans can look forward to officially topping off their collections by the end of 2006!

As a landmark television series that strayed further and further from the original books with each passing year, "Little House" impacted viewers with its bravery in depicting a simple family with more love than some people know in a lifetime. Season 1, which picks up where the pilot movie left off and chronicles the Ingalls family's experiences upon settling in Walnut Grove, Minnesota, gives the characters an opportunity to establish themselves in the mold of the series.

Strong and memorable moments are sprinkled throughout the entire season, beginning with Mary and Laura's shaky entrance into Walnut Grove's school (you'd be scared, too, if Nellie Oleson was shooting daggers at you the second you walked in) and moving right along with the rest of the characters. The classic Olesons provided the consistent comic relief that the show needed, and heart-tuggers like "Town Party, Country Party" gave beautiful testimonies of love and friendship.

Then there was the virtually unforgettable "The Lord Is My Shepherd," an emotionally draining 2-hour episode where Laura, who assumes the blame for her baby brother's death, runs away and has private conversations with God. She attempts to bargain with Him and, through her childlike innocence, is willing to sacrifice what is most important to her: her position as her father's daughter. At 9 years old, actress Melissa Gilbert demonstrates an impeccable ability to emote in front of the camera, delivering the very power that makes you wonder what children know that we don't. Paired with the ingenuity of Michael Landon, this on-screen father/daughter duo is unstoppable and does not lose one ounce of its charm throughout the entire series, not even when Laura is all grown and has a family of her own.

Just as it is with the books, the television series has a quiet, underlying theme that emphasizes the deep relationship between Laura and her beloved Pa. However, the show gives enough emotional coverage with all the characters to provide something of true innocence and substance. By immortalizing "Little House" through the DVD's, new generations can be introduced to the beautiful formula while old fans enjoy the timeless message it will always represent to future societies: faith, love, and the simple joys of life.