Are you ready to party with the Valley girls?  Amy Heckerling's Clueless is an interesting portrayl of high school girls in Beverly Hills.  She brings humor along with some interesting lessons to the lives of teenagers.  Alicia Sliverstone plays the main character Cher.  There's no one else who could play this part so well.  She's funny and captures our attention with her role as "rich girl".  Cher is the typical rich girl in high school with her popular friends and keen fashion sense. She can handle being a part of everyone else's personal life but when it comes to her own personal life she's lost.  Humor is brought into the lives of these girls when we see how these girls live.  With their computerized closets, cell phones, credit cards, and expensive cars.  It's rich girls to the extreme.  Cher's main goal in this movie is to make people happy.  How she goes about making people happy is a different story. She'll do everything and anything.  When a new girl comes to town Cher has to be the one to give her a make-over and show her the right crowd to hang around with. This also leads to Cher's adventures in matchmaking. One way Cher likes to spread happiness to everyone is by playing matchmaker.  This is also where she finds trouble.  While trying to create matches between people she doesn't see the match for herself right before her eyes. The matchmaking we see in this film is very much like the book "Emma" written by Jane Austen. If you haven't read it see it on video.  "Emma" takes place in a different time period but the similarities between Emma and Cher are amazing.  The two movies have parallel characters and scenes. If you've seen "Emma" you'll enjoy Clueless even more. It's great to see a similarity in movies that portray totally different time periods. Clueless takes "Emma" to the extreme with teens.  We see what it was like to live then as opposed to now, with the cell phone and computerized closets. Even though the times are different the underlying themes are the same.  There's the "perfect" girl trying her hardest to make everyone happy, yet she's does it in such a clueless manner.  She's trying to make others happy but she's doesn't always chose the best ways of doing things.  People may hate Cher for her cluelessness but when it comes down to it she's only doing things for good reason.  There's no bad intentions in her heart.  She may be annoying and some will see her as a "dumb blonde" but not many people are as caring.  There are lessons to be taught in this movie and if you find these lessons you have really "seen" the movie and you aren't as "clueless" as some.