I just saw this film on the big screen last night, but have seen it numerous times in other media. It is a beautifully made movie with a message worth heeding.
The over-arching theme is the dichotomy between reason and logic on one hand and emotion and faith on the other. The villain of the film is a heartless government official, a Mr. Jackson, played by Jonathan Pryce (complementing his role as the government's victim in Brazil) who claims to be motivated entirely by logic and reason, but is engaged in a perfectly idiotic war. One thing that the film doesn't really make clear is that reason can be (and really must be) animated by imagination. Mr. Jackson has no imagination whatsoever and therefore operates according to a very base form of "reason".
The Baron is the personification of emotion and faith and he is quite literally animated by imagination. The more completely that the little girl Sally believes in the Baron, the younger and more vigorous he gets. Sally must also at one point get the Baron to keep believing in himself. Gilliam seems to be saying that our own imagination is capable of testing our faith in itself.
Sally and the Baron's adventures involve a trek in four stages, each of which is themed by one of the four elements of the ancient Greeks: air, earth, fire and water. To begin with the Baron makes his escape from the beseiged city in a hot AIR balloon improbably made of ladies underwear. He then flies up above the clouds through the AIR to the moon. The EARTHy part (in both literal and figurative senses) of the quest takes place on the Moon, which is pretty good joke in itself. They descend from the Moon into a volcano, which of course involves a lot of FIRE. Their departure from the volcano is into a whirlpool which sends them through the center of the earth to the South Seas, where after paddling around in the WATER they end up inside of a very large fish (which is very wet indeed). Along the way Sally and the Baron recover his four faithful servants, who, if you stretched this a little could also each be paired with one of the four elements (e.g., Gustavas has remarkable hearing and can blow like gale of wind; Adolphus is a remarkable marksman and rifles involved "firing" etc.).
The fact that this structure survived the editting involved in the legendary budget crunch and political quagmire that dogged this movie is simply amazing. The film is absolutely brilliant and leaves you feeling like you ought to spend a little more time getting in touch with what ever's left of your childlike wonder at the mysteries of the world. That can't be a bad thing.