Brilliance has its degrees.  There is four year old finger painting brilliance.  Then there is Arnold brilliance.  That's all you need to know.  Third installment in a worn franchise, right?  Missed it in the theater?  Holy cow, my friend.  What a mistake that was!
This movie was clearly written by a 12 year old when fun was fun.  There aren't any ninjas kindly waiting their turn in this movie.  It is non-stop unbelievable action.  You will premanently press your silouette into your leather sofa, it's that good.  I couldn't recover from scene to scene.  It's just unbelievable action in the all out story-telling of a kid who doesn't consider if the scene is practical.  "Wouldn't it be cool if..."  "Yeah yeah, and then, while the car is sliding..."  "And the crane will be..."  Someone in Hollywood finally found scripting talent for action movies.
Sure, it's a stupid premise.  "Spot the plot hole" is for idiots in this flick.  I'm sure some wickedly smart person has already disproven that skin can't survive without an intricate circulatory system, yet the terminator clearly doesn't have a heart.  But to this friend, I say, go get a life or go watch Wizard of Oz with your mom!  
This is Arnold!  This guy is governor.  And I voted for him!  Man, just seeing him stand next to Gray Davis makes me chuckle.  I wonder if Gray is like "Whoa.  I look like a cocktail shrimp!"
Ah anyway, seriously, this movie has a lot of the action grit of the first one.  Some scenes are campy.  Others are comic book like as the trend has gone in the past decade.  It's not to be missed if you are a fan of the franchise.  I would rank it the best of the three.
The ONLY negative (besides California in general) is that the DVD doesn't have more Kristanna Loken on it.  She gave a terrific performance, much better than Nick Stahl's detached acting and Kate Brewster's girly overacting.  I wonder if Arnold tried to grab anyone's butt.  Ah, anyway, in the true American way, ignoring anything west of the Pacific, east of the Atlantic, south of the border, and those weird nobodies up north, one of the true great evils of the world is that Loken got perhaps fifth billing.  She is a cutie.  She got almost no time in the DVD extras.