How can a person not love the incredible adventures of Wallace and Gromit? The only problem with it is that there are only three cartoons available! There is a movie coming out in October though, and you can bet it'll be great just like these. I've owned this video since 2000, and it is one of my favorites. This collection is no longer available in stores, but sit tight, they are rereleasing it on video and DVD on September 20th. All three of these adventures were nominated for Academy Awards with "The Wrong Trousers" and "A Close Shave" winning one respectively. In this review I will give you a breif description of the characters and of the three incredible adventures!

Wallace: Wallace is a kindharted, but absent minded inventor whose inventions always seem to need a few bugs worked out of them! He loves inventing, however, and is absoloutly mad about all kinds of gormet cheeses, but not without crackers!

Gromit: Gromit does not talk, but his body language says it all. He is incredibly intellegent and sophistocated but not in a snobby way. He likes a good cup of tea and some corn flakes for breakfast (What? You think he eats dog food?!!) and loves to stay informed by reading the newspaper daily.

A Grand Day Out: This is the first ever Wallace and Gromit cartoon in which Wallace comes up with the bright idea to go to the moon in search of the perfect cheese! "Everyone knows the moon is made of cheese Gromit!" So they build a rocket rather quickly and go to the moon for a grand day out.

The Wrong Trousers: The wrong trousers is the second Wallace and Gromit cartoon in which Wallace invents a pair of robotic trousers to take Gromit for a walk. At the time desperate for money, Wallace decides to take in a boarder, a seemingly harmless, yet somehow suspicious penguin. Gromit quickly grows jelous of the penguin's time spent with Wallace and the fact that the Penguin took his room; forcing him to move into another room which is kind of a wreck! One day Gromit goes up to his room to find the Penguin up to no good!

A Close Shave: THis is the most recent Wallace and Gromit Cartoon in which Wallace and Gromit take jobs as window washers. They find out the their best costomer's dog seems to be up to no good by trying to steal sheep for some reason unknown.

I hope you found this long review helpful. Thanks for reading it!