A: 5/5 Stars
  This movie was an excellent blend of tears, laughter, and music.  Tom Hanks gives an Academy-Award winning performance as Forrest Gump, a man with an I.Q. of 75.  Forrest makes up for his low I.Q. with a good spirit, a big heart, and a "moral compass that never wavers".
  Forrest goes from football star to Vietnam war hero, international ping-pong champion to shrimp boat captain.  In the midst of all of this, we also see the change of American society over the three decades the movie covers.
  This movie is very moving and inspiring. The story doesn't explore much into the lives of the other characters, but it's not supposed to.  The movie "Forrest Gump" is about Forrest Gump and what even a simple and mentally challenged man can accomplish. What if we unchallenged and blessed people tried?  What could we accomplish?
  Winner of six Academy Awards, this movie is definitely one of the best movies ever.  
J: 5/5 Stars

  What a passionately magical movie. it is the kindof movie that you want to hug yourself while your watching it.and when your finished the overall essence and feeling is so profound that you know you will remember it for a long time.forrest gump was one of the best movies of 1994.
  it is the story, or legend, of a man who manages inadvertenty, to land in every major event from the 50's through the 80's. He may not be the smartest of people( his IQ is 75 but he is honest and innocent. kind of a memory of the time when we were all ignorant but still pure. over those years he meets the president no less than three times, becomes a ping-pong champion, receives the medal of honor, and even " gets stocks in a new fruit company"(apple). And he walks out of it all as a kind, uncynical person.it is also ultimately about his relationship with his childhood girlfriend, and how all their experiences lead them to a conclusion both heart-rending and sweet.their experiences trough each decade might differ in many volumes but together they are a symbol and reminder of that time.
  Tom hanks shows again that he is one of the greatest actors of our time and generation. He is able to evoke th essence of forrest gump and not over sentimentalize his being. As for the rest of the movie, each scene shines with the love and care of the people who created it. Forrest gump is a landmark for the years passed and to come and it will remain in the hearts of viewers forever.