The story starts off with the evil Drej invading and destroy the planet of Earth. Only a handful of survivors escape the terrible destruction, including young Cale (voiced by Matt Damon). Years pass and now Cale is a young man, embittered at the whole human race, but most of all angry at his scientist father for leaving him. The human race is becoming extinct but there is still a dim hope in the mysterious project Cale's father was working on called the 'Titan project'. Cale is sought out by Korso (Bill Pullman) to help find the Titan spacecraft. So from there begins an adventure full of danger and excitement as Cale and Korso's crew try to discover the whereabouts of the Titan. The crew consists of the beautiful pilot Akima (Drew Barrymore), the annoyingly sarcastic Preed (Nathan Lane), the genius Gune (John Leguizamo), and weapons expert Stith (Janeane Garofalo).
An extremely entertaining movie, "Titan A.E." is certainly an interesting movie to watch. The story has its elements of being sort of a Star Wars movie with the theme about there being a hope for the future for the whole galaxy. All of the creatures and aliens (my favorites being the alien race the Gaul and the 'cockroach' chef), all have interesting characteristics and quirky sides.
The best thing about the movie is most definitely the extremely great computer graphics combined with 2D animation. The beginning where the Drej destroy Earth and the end sequence was probably the best computer graphics done in the whole movie. But of course all the starships, explosions, planets, and more were well-done also.
The characters are likable for an animation movie. Unlike some movies, all of the characters have three dimensions of characteristics. Take for example Cale, a young man who is embittered in the beginning. Throughout the movie you can see the development of his character as he soon realizes that there is still hope for the whole human race. And there's also Akima, who though at first ignores Cale, bonds with him, friendship becoming love at the end.
Here's my summary of the film: An entertaining film which I recommend for families. But the film is rated PG for some violence and some innuendo references. Let's just say that if "Titan A.E." was not animation, it would probably be rated PG-13. But on a good note, there is no bad language used at all. The reason for my 4 stars is that though some would find "Titan A.E." one of their favorite movies, I myself can't say the same thing. There are other films which I find are more fun to watch. Just my opinion but please, check out this movie if you get a chance!
Here's an interesting Star Wars reference: When our heroes try to leave Bangkok, Akima says, "Would it help if I got out and pushed?" In "Star Wars V - The Empire Strikes Back", Leia says a similar line to Han Solo before they leave the Asteroid field.