Pork Chops with Chinasky
By Christopher C. Happ 2008

A review of:
Born into This
 Magnolia home entertainment 2003

I am interested in the great authors of the 20th century.  I have studied the Beats: Kerouac, Burroughs, Corso, Ginsberg and other 20th century writers like, Hemingway, Capote, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Upton Sinclair, Dos Passos, Kafka and many others.  I have had a fascination for the less than mainstream writers like Hunter S. Thompson and lately, Charles Bukowski.  I did not read Bukowski in the 20th century.  I had heard of him and even saw his books on the shelves at City Lights bookstore, the home and spawning grounds of the Beats, although Bukowski never felt a part of that group.  His work was innovative, talking about the seedier side of our existence.

I was sorry that I came to his work, so late.  In honor of the man, I prepared a pork chop dinner and drank cheap beer and wine to get in the mood.  He used the pseudonym Henry (Hank) Chinaski, in his novels and in Barfly, starring, Faye Dunaway and Mickey Rourke.

This is a glimpse of a 20th century writer, like many at that time, a heavy drinker and womanizer.  Bukowski was as comfortable in a bar fight as he was at a poetry reading.  Like many writers, he talks about the need to write, in order to understand this life and keep him from going crazy.

The documentary opens with Bukowski at a poetry reading in San Francisco at Lawrence Ferlinghetti's, Poet's theater. Founder of City Lights and publisher of many a Beat writer.
There is a refrigerator on stage and he drinks beer after beer and wine while reading his work and chiding naysayers in the audience. "One more beer and I'll take you all!"

Bukowski started out writing poetry and short stories, which he submitted to the top magazines at the time, like Atlantic Monthly.  Finally, one of his stories was published and he wrote hundreds of poems.  The movie Barfly based on his life, a blur of alcohol, women, cigarettes and a trail of meaningless odd jobs.  As most writers, the passion for writing was a driving force, eclipsing all else. He lived in drab flophouse rooms and went from job to job.

The documentary shows Bukowski in the 1970's, on his way up and the 1990's, after he had arrived.  We watch him read poetry, play the horses and there are interviews with his women and publisher John Martin, of Black Sparrow Press.  Martin offered Bukowski $100 per month for life, after tallying his monthly living expenses. ($80 for rent, $19 for food and $3.50 for cigarettes.) That was in the 1960's and of course, any writer would jump at the chance to have such a stipend to be able to write full-time.  His work started in the LA Free Press and Martin published chapbooks of his poetry.  His column Notes of a Dirty Old Man got him recognized.  Martin asked him to write a novel, because of the much greater financial possibilities.
A good biography of Bukowkski is, Locked in the Arms of a Crazy Life, (1998 Howard Sounes)

His first novel: Post Office, (1971 Black Sparrow Books.), about his life working for the post office as a temporary carrier and clerk, a job he truly hated.  In the late 1980's Martin raised his monthly stipend to $8,000 per month.  The success of his works led to a house in San Pedro, a BMW, an Acura, a Macintosh computer and the ability to pay cash for them.

He wrote Ham on Rye, (1982 Harper Collins.) the story of his childhood and adolescence. He had acne vulgaris and in his words, "Was not a pretty guy" He describes regular beatings by his father with a razor strop and the alienation he encountered in school due to the acne and boils. His novel,  Factotum , ( 1975, Harper Collins.), now also a  movie, is a running account of his years as a bum, drinking, fighting, smoking and doing odd menial jobs.

Bukowski was a misogynist and unlucky at love. The documentary is a great insight into his life in his later years.  He was really getting famous in the 1970's and died in 1993.  The documentary is a portrait of a tortured writer and his disregard for the establishment.  A story of redemption; although he drank, gambled and womanized until his death.  Bukowski's story gives me hope. Hope that the art in one's soul can eventually lead to a life unencumbered by the 9-5 thing, with enough to live on and the ability to put all energies into one's art.  This film is insightful of a writer's life and a slice of literary history.  Bukowski had more than forty books published, some novels: Women, (1978) Hollywood, (1989) and a variety of poetry and short stories.