It's difficult to make a sci-fi movie without treading on some clich&eacute;s, and without using technology borrowed from other movies; there are more than a few alien invasion and robot takeover movies. As an audience, we've seen it all before, we like it, and we're happy to pay for some fresh material. Where a movie in this genre sets itself apart is in storytelling.

This movie feels like a poorly written sister movie to Battle Los Angeles, told from the perspective of civilians trapped in an apartment building. It's as if the producers heard about Battle Los Angeles, decided to make a competing movie, then rushed it to market so they could get their piece of the pie (this movie released 4 months before Battle Los Angeles). The two movies even begin with the same "flash forward, flash back" storytelling.

I don't care about these characters. They are vague, clich&eacute;d, and most of them are jerks. There are no character arcs. The characters are little more than "fresh meat."

There is no buildup of tension in the storytelling, and there are no emotional arcs; just some distractions to prolong the movie while the plot treads towards the inevitable end.

There are a few good things I can say about the movie. The "moths to a flame" / "anglerfish" concept is unique. The movie is a tragedy, which is rare in the entertainment industry (humans do not prevail; there are no cute little pink bows on everything at the end). The movie is only 1 hour and 30 minutes long. Otherwise this movie is a poorly executed collection of bits from other sci-fi movies and video games. Even the ending is a "hint of Stanley Kubrik" rip-off: The main character's brain is possessed within an alien robot body, standing over his pregnant girlfriend with an expression of, "Well, now I'm an alien robot. Wonder what that will do to my rap career."

Many movies give everything up in previews. This movie gives us little more than what we get from the movie posters. If you must, then fast forward through the drama and focus on the special effects.

This movie is a money grab.