I have been a long-time hardcore horror movie buff for many years now. (with such favorites as Jason Voorhees, Michael Myers, and Leatherface) However, there is no other horror film villain like that of the calm, yet terrifying personality of Pinhead. Doug Bradley as the diabolical demon (or angel to some) is quite possibly the most convincing in horror since "A Nightmare On Elm Street" with Robert Englund as Freddy Kruegar! With such popular quotes like, "Nobody escapes us!" and "We Will tear your soul apart!" it just remains in your head and haunts you. The storyline is also very original and easy to follow due to that it doesn't require as much logic and thinking from the viewer. The soundtrack is also very scary and nightmarish and the blood and gore is one of the most disturbing in cinema history! The acting may drag just a LITTLE at times and some character development could be improved a bit, but it's still a horrifying masterpiece by British horror master, Clive Barker. The plot concerns young Kirsty and her father and evil stepmother who move into their new home in England. Little do they know that Kirtsen's father, Larry's brother, Frank had died in that house years before. When Larry cuts himself, the blood drips onto and below the floorboard, where Frank's corpse still lies, bringing him back from the grave (and from hell!) Armed with a mysterious puzzle box called the Lament Configuration, it is the power to unlock the doors to either heaven or hell and barely making it away from her bloodthirsty uncle, Kirsten steals the box and eventually solves the puzzle, releasing a group of monsters called Cenobites (led by Pinhead, obviously) from their imprisonment. Kirsten decides to make a deal with them to lead them to her twisted uncle who escaped hell in exchange for her OWN SOUL! A non-stop nightmare at every corner and plenty of excellent special effects that while being dated by today's standards, still add a chilling touch! Very scary in a gothic manner. I recommend this movie to any horror fan out there! I also recommend "Hellbound: Hellraiser II". (it is even scarier than this one!)