I wanted to point out something technical about the slim set discs that I bought.  If you're looking for insight into the episodes or characters - please look elsewhere.

When I put the first disc of Season One into my DVD player, it started the "loading" process and gave me a disc error after about one minute.  Instead of cursing Fox (well, I did it later anyway) I turned the player off, leaving the disc inside.  After a couple of minutes, I turned my DVD player on and Viola!  I heard the X-Files theme and saw the menus (after the obligatory FBI copyright infringement warnings).

For those wondering, the DVD player in question above is a Philips Progressive Scan.  The same problem occurred on a newer Panasonic player.  No glitches materialized when I tried the discs on the Sony or AKAI players.  In all cases, I was eventually able to get to the episodes.  With the first two the screen sometimes showed up scrambled and the menus inaccessible.  On other occasions I was able to access a root menu similar to one you would see if you "explore" the DVD contents on a PC (Video_TS files, etc.), though the players would not load any content from these menus.  Speaking of PC viewing, I experienced no problems with any of the discs on my PC and all four programs my PC has to play DVDs functioned perfectly.

PLEASE DON'T READ INTO THIS TOO MUCH.  I don't work for Fox - I'm not trying to encourage sales of the more expensive sets.  This was just a personal experience I had, and it seemed to occur less frequently with Seasons 4 - 9.  My uneducated opinion: the equipment I have isn't top of the line, and maybe wasn't equipped to handle the way the content was compressed.  I was impressed that 4, sometimes 5 episodes were squeezed on one disc.  That's three - almost four hours of content.  I know - dual layer DVDs and blah, blah, blah.  But c'mon - even Lord of the Rings - Return of the King was issued on 2 discs!  (By the way, the content looked and sounded great.)

Another side note: Seasons 1 - 4 that I got were full frame, and 5 - 9 are widescreen.  At first I thought I had missed the option when purchasing these discs, but these are the only way I've found them at retail stores and online.  Nothing major; I just thought I was losing my mind at first.  (Which is still a possibility.)  I can't remember if they aired this way on television - I just noticed that the cinematography got revved up a bit starting with Season 5.  If this observation is incorrect, someone please feel free to correct me.

Okay.  If you have read this entire review give yourself a pat on the back, a cookie, I dunno - watch some old Doctor Who episodes or something.  A better price, better packaging, and better for you.  (They were giving out a carton of Morley's with the bigger sets, right?)  By the way - the 5 stars is based on my overall X-Files enjoyment.  Sure, there are episodes I can skip through.  But for me, it's good bang for the buck.  Enjoy!