This is a killer movie. It is the first really fresh farce I've seen since the "Airplane"/"Naked Gun" continuum of cookie cutter comedies started to run in the early 1980's. The movie is well photographed, smart, clever and funny. The humor is a little goofy (imagine if your high school class clown were allowed the budget and resources to make a serious movie), but it is satisfying.

There are many current movies that had bigger budgets and can only wish they were as well made and well scripted as "Shawn of the Dead."

The filmmaker is well versed in traditional zombie movie/"Night of the Living Dead" cinematic mythology, and you'll see a lot of familiar horror movie symbols skewered.

It pains me to say that this movie probably couldn't be made by Americans today (the cast and writers are relentlessly British) because of Hollywood's fear of original and clever thinking. The tradition of British humor which prides itself on originality of thinking is a key element at work in the success of "Shawn of the Dead." Of course Hollywood will try to clone the film, but the product will look like all the rest of the recycled spew churned out by domestic filmmakers.

Take note Anglophobes: there's nothing in this movie except the accents you won't approve of. In fact, there's little in the film that won't make perfect cultural sense. This is the kind of slacker movie that every Twixster living in his mom's basement from Shepherd's Bush to Malibu dreams of making. It's surely the movie they want to watch.

Best of all, since my family purchased the film we've watched it several times. There's always something new to see. This is critical in a film that you will purchase for your own collection.

WARNING: As I said, this is a smart movie! Like all of the best comedy there are some barbed social comments at work here. You've probably thought the film's main theme yourself: in the modern technological world if we aren't careful, we all wind up "living dead" zombies.

If you can't deal with a film that rises well above the profanity and bathroom humor of "Scary Movie" you won't like "Shawn of the Dead," but if you need some real humor that's a step or two above the drivel you put up with at the cinema day in and day out, check out "Shawn of the Dead."