...P>Mulder and Scully were still together for this, their last season as the two leading characters of one of the best dramatic series in television history. 
After the movie, the move to L.A. and the predominance of humorous episodes throughout the Sixth Season and the incredible resolution of the original mythology, the seventh season started with a bang but not with a little anxiety on the fans' side because this was the much rumored final season. ... 
Myth Episodes:
The Seventh Season starts with the two parts of a new mythology that started with the last episode of Season Six called Biogenesis.
The Sixth Extinction and The Sixth Extinction II: Amor Fati (Wich translated means "Love Of Fate")carry on with the theory that Mulder might be a succesful Human - Alien Hybrid!!!
It's extremely important that you don't miss the Two Parter:
Sein Und Zeit (Wich means "Being and Time") and Closure wich puts to rest, in an extremely precious form, the Samantha Mulder mistery giving the Fox Character one of his few moments of rest throughout the whole series.
And Requiem... The best of the best in Season Finale's. Although it would ultimately lead the series into only God knows what.
Stand Alone Episodes (Or Monster of the Week):
Orison:
Witnesses the return of a villain that appeared before in earlier seasons. Great script by Chip Johanessen (Former collaborator of Beverly Hills 90210 and Millenium).
The Amazing Maleeni:
Actually not an X File, but an excellent proof that the series still had a lot of fuel. Excellent Turn of Screw at the end!!!
X Cops:
Cops, The X Files and Vince Gilligan... What's not to like?
Theef:
Voodoo. Nuff Said!!!
Chimera:
David Amann at his best!!!
En Ami (Wich means "One Friend", although its a play on words wich in english can be understood as "enemy"):
Written by the CSM himself (William B. Davis)!!!
All Things:
Written and Directed by Gillian Anderson. Not the best, but the teaser (considered one of the most controversials in the whole series' existence) is worth the whole package.
Je Souhaite (I Wish):
Written and directed by Vince Gilligan.
After this, the series was transformed into a mix up that even Chris Carter didn't understand at all. Don't get me wrong. I don't hate Robert Patrick's character or even Annabeth Gish's but John Dogget and Monica Reyes didn't achieve to give the series that feeling we all know very well. That X FILES feeling. 
I'm so sorry that David Duchovny got transformed into such an egotistical person. The series would have been succesful with him in it. You can see him act like a Zombie (Check out Chimera)and he already looks tired. Maybe the series would've finished here and continue in a new movie. Heck! The series could've even ended with Season Eight, but no! Fox had to continue exploiting fans. And we gladly let them... But not for long.
Hope you enjoy having the only and real seven seasons of what can be called the television phenomenon of the last century. 
I WILL buy the las two seasons, only to feed my collectionist's hunger, and because the movie will start where the last episode of the Ninth (and worst season) left off.
Long Live the X Files!!!
Long Live the X Philes!!!
Wishing to encounter you all again in a dark cinema room.
Enrique Aguilar.
A Mexican X Phile.