Having read the book before coming to the movie, I suppose I might be a bit biased in this review.  However, I was quite impressed by the judicious adaptation of A.S. Byatt's very complex novel.  The film simplified some of the minor sub-plots while being true to the gist of the story.  It could have been much worse.
Then again, it could have been better.  I thought the decision to turn Roland into an American was unnecessary and the determination of the screenwriters to add comments about him being American in every scene was a bit much.  Roland also had changed...he was no longer the gentle self-effacing young scolar who discovers his latent talent for poetry, but had become charismatic, forward, even flirty.  Why couldn't they have left poor Roland alone?  The screenwriters evidently thought that the real, underachieving Roland wasn't good enough for U.S. audiences.
All in all, the "modern" romance with Maud Bailey and Roland Mitchell was unsatisfying.  Their best moments were when they were caught up in the excitement of shared intellectual discovery.  I love the part when they discover Christobel's letters and you can just see the wheels in Maud's mind turning.  When they turned towards each other, however, the romance was sadly unconvincing.
Jeremy Northam and Jennifer Ehle, however, succeeded admirably in their portrayal of Randolph Ash and Christobel Lamotte.  The moment they first set eyes on each other you could see the trembling in Ash's face and the KNOWING in Christobel's when they realize that their fate has arrived.  Jennifer Ehle seemed to completely capture the essence of Christobel!  I had imagined her mouth just so...a little tight, a little ironic.  Their restrained, then released passion for each other was very well done...it made the movie worthwhile.
Some very beautiful devices for switching between the Victorians and the moderns - the juxtaposition of the two time periods was well integrated and helped to give the sense of "possession"; those steps had been walked before.
I enjoyed the movie and would recommend it, though the scenes between Roland and Maud made me roll my eyes.