This was my first Ingmar Bergman movie, and let's just say I was very impressed.  While several reviewers have correctly noted that "Wild Strawberries" is full of symbolism (some of it hazy) and somewhat slow-moving, it is anything but plodding or dull.  Rather, the film is pretty accessible to just about any audience, even a non-Swedish one, as it beautifully examines personal issues that will ultimately effect all of us: aging, regret, bitterness, and redemption.  While I am completely unfamiliar with his work, I read that the star, Victor Sjosstrom was one of Sweden's finest actors in the early 20th Century.  This is not surprising, for as the central character, Dr. Isak Borg, he carries both the film and emotional weight of his character with each utterance, grimace, and movement throughout the movie.  As the movie progresses, I felt a host of emotions -- some negative, some positive -- for Dr. Borg as he evolved from an angry old man into a warm being that can accept his disappointments and is able to move on without any lingering bitterness.

Since several of the reviewers have already provided good summaries of the plot, I'll skip providing those details and instead focus on a small handful of the great scenes in the movie which really stuck with me.  First, the dream sequences.  A couple of Dr. Borg's dreams are tremendously eerie and piercing.  The first one of note, which numerous other reviews have commenting on, appears at the very beginning, with Dr. Borg waking along completely empty streets until a carriage carrying his coffin goes by.  When the carriage gets its wheel caught on a lamp-post, a creepy creaking noise emanates until the carriage breaks free and the coffin spills onto the street in front of Borg.  After dead Borg's hand comes out and grabs the living Dr. Borg, I was awe-struck.  Great scene, and of the better nightmare sequences you'll ever see in cinema.

Similarly, the dream where old Dr. Borg is sitting with young Sara, the love of life and his young fiance, is superb and shattering.  It is very difficult not to feel empathy for Borg as Sara coldly tells him that she is going to marry his brother Siegfried, and then forces him to stare at his old face in a mirror before abruptly running off.  Another wrenching, powerful scene.

I think, though, that the last five minutes of "Wild Strawberries" may be the best, most satifying part of the film.  It is at the end that Dr. Borg finally realizes redemption for his life and disappointments, and is able to bask in the love of those who mattered most to him: Sara, his daughter-in-law Marianne, and the son whom he imparted his coldness to.  When present-day Sara tells him he is the one she always loved, and he is able to lie in the warmth of pleasant dreams of his childhood, the journey ends for Borg and the viewer.  This ending is exceptionally gratifying.  While I am sure that Bergman's symbolism can be interpreted in a plethora of intelligent ways, the film struck me as kind of dark cinema, but with a moral that anyone can overcome their regrets and disappointments at any time, even at the very end of their life.

Four stars.