NOTE: I did NOT watch the original TV series, and was not even born yet. However, I'm not so dumb as to miss references to the original and since I did not watch the show (whether that means it was a good thing or a bad thing), they were still funny to me.

It's a great movie, though. Jonah Hill is always funny. Channing Tatum not so much. However, in this movie he really steps up for once and you can see he's a pretty good actor. Newly found respect for the guy. Maybe he's got a limit on his emotions, but it all fits with his character here and it's not his usual performance. After seeing this, I could imagine he would be a pretty good fit in some other comedies down the road.

As far as plotline, it shares little with the original. If you watch it, you'll see it's more of a modern sequel to the original rather than a remake, so don't be upset that they're just taking the title from it. Which, essentially they are, but it's not frustrating. The story itself is not too incredible, but it's not what makes the movie. It's the way things happen, how people say things, and the characters who progress this story so well. The one-liners are some of the best I've ever seen, very much like Pineapple Express- a great one-liner movie.

Another thing about this movie is it's just not a story with characters, but it's basically a parody of, well, society these days. Specifically high school. Between the cool kids being eco-obsessed, studying, tolerant, yet popular shows how kids these days have changed. It mocks the "good-old days" when cool kids gave wedgies and laughed at losers. With the two main characters seeing the changes first-hand, you can really understand them and the school they go to. Secondly, it mocks cliches in a big way. I won't spoil things, but it puts jokes on car chases, lack of originality in movies, and especially the angry, black police captain. Again, it's not a cliche in the movie, but rather it knows damn well what it's doing and offers a straight-up parody of it.

I hear few complaints about it, especially how someone I know (who thinks he's a professional movie critic, by the way) explain how it's just "depending on laughs by sticking in the f word between a sentence." Sure, it has some of that. But not in a distracting manner. In fact, I'd say some of the funniest lines are things you don't even notice the first time, like a line in the background or a reference to something earlier in the movie you may have missed. It's written well, and may take more than one viewing to fully understand.

Give it a chance. You'll like it. If you don't have an open mind and are not looking for fun or are angry about how it gives 21 Jump Street a bad name, you won't enjoy it. But put it aside for 2 hours and just enjoy the movie for what it is. It's great.