Of all Chaplin's movies, this one is probably the most difficult to review.  Prior to Limelight (1952), Chaplin's movies (after achieving artistic maturity) were either flawless or masterpieces with a few flaws that detract from the overall impact only in relatively minor ways.  After Limelight, Chaplin only completed two films (not counting his compilation The Chaplin Revue), one of which (A King in New York) has many fine moments but doesn't have nearly the impact that his earlier movies do, the other (A Countess from Hong Kong) I have not seen but have heard is uninspired throughout.  With Limelight, we have Chaplin in transition, an overall concept which is very promising, but a stagey execution which, much as I would like to say otherwise, seriously detracts from the impact the concept has.

  The overall idea is very fine.  Chaplin is Calvero, an aging clown long past his prime, who no longer is able to make audiences laugh.  He saves a young girl, Terry, from suicide, and restoring her back to health (she cannot walk) gives him a new lease on life.  Eventually, he regains his popularity, and a revitalized Terry says she loves him and wants to marry him; he realizes that the offer only comes from gratitude and kindness, not from love, and also that his life is drawing to a close, his time has come.  In one last triumphant act, Calvero has the audience howling in laughter when he has a heart attack; he steps out of the limelight in favor of Terry and dies watching her.  The central theme in this movie, the futility of prolonging life after its natural conclusion, obviously has the potential for a great masterpiece, but while Chaplin obviously recognizes this and brings out every stage in the drama with great pathos, he overdoes it.  His frequent philosophical ramblings, while fascinating, come off as unrealistic, and in fact Calvero generally has the air of someone who could not possibly have existed, a stage character rather than a real human being.  Some people find this overlong, but I am inclined to put this down to the excessively short attention span most movie audiences have; the movie is longer than most Chaplin movies (in fact, it might be the longest, I haven't timed them), but it is always interesting, and every incident is important to the unfolding of the drama.  Also, don't expect too many laughs: this is almost straight drama, with the only comedy being done on stage by Calvero (and Keaton's character), and even that is tinged with sadness, as Chaplin's age for the first time in his movies makes its presence felt.

  I have brought up the final scene with Chaplin and Keaton; this was the only time the two great comics of the silent era worked together, and it has provoked controversy that still has not died down, namely, the rumor that Chaplin cut out most of Keaton's best bits so that Chaplin would dominate the scene.  Allow me to quote something which, I hope, will put an end to the rumors, at least here at amazon.com.  This quote is from Jeffrey Vance's superb biography of Chaplin (highly recommended), who in turn quotes Jerry Epstein: "People have written over the years that Charlie cut out the best stuff of Buster Keaton.  That's completely untrue, and I should know as I was with Charlie every day in the editing of the picture.  He shot enough for ten films from just that sequence.  He cut out some of Keaton's stuff but he also cut some of his own best gags.  Narrative meant more than anything else, no matter how good any one gag was.  He would never sacrifice anyone's performance."

  In short, I recommend this for Chaplin fans who are familiar with his best work, but I don't think this should be anyone's introduction to Chaplin.