When I fist saw the trailer for S/B: Public Enemies, two things came to mind. It wasn't the fact that Tim Daly would reprise his voice role as Clark or that the true voice of Bruce would feature Kevin Conroy. It wasn't the fact DC Comics deemed it fit to take a pretty good graphic novel and strip it down to fill a TV screen. No, it was the simple fact - and keep in mind I'm about to utter thoughts that most fan-boys would not otherwise speak - but we'd finally get to see the bountiful Power Girl in action!
  From the first side-profile shot to the point where she hinted how uncomfortable she was around the 13-year old, hormone charged Toy-Man (preferably named, Hiro) - it became evident the creators may have had a bit too much fun putting her assets in animated action form. Don't kid yourself, you know it's comical - you know it's funny - you know that her endowments have been, and pardon the pun, poked at by every artist and writer out there. Plus there are many more lined up to do the same.
  That's too bad.
  The above dither about endowments and sexual pot-shots is meant to be in jest. Kara's injection into the comic storyline, as well as the animated feature is justified - she's a powerful agent for good. Her crisis of conscience is a key component of the story, where heroes not only battle a full gallery of baddies, but also other heroes, causing some to question their own loyalties - it's a very powerful concept which comes across in the animated feature quite nicely.  I just don't think it was necessary for the story-board artists to make Power Girl appear so stereotypically top heavy.
  All in all, the DVD main feature is well done. Yes, if you expect the DVD to run along-side the comic, you're in for a fall. Yes, the special features continue to be a disappointment, although the `Dinner w/ Kevin Conroy' piece was different, you find out why Andrea Romano is a voice director - she talks and talks and talks - ugh! The pimping of the comic story known as `Darkest Night' continues to air - not sure who promoted Geoff Johns as the second coming - whatever! The bonus Batman episodes were a nice addition, but DC continues to fall short of making the 2-disc version a worthy buy. Buy the DVD, certainly, if only for the main feature.