Two and a half stars.  Half a star for cinematography and location...so watch if you like travelogue films.  Other than that, don't bother.  The makers of this film could have made a '60's style spiritual/social commentary, but opted to drop the ball, so to speak, and smugly leave us hanging without explanation.  It IS self explanatory, but the film makers leave too much to our imagination to do.  In this film, three self centered weenies go in search of--at first, or so the oldest brother of the three tells them--a spiritual quest.  Secretly, he's got them together to search for their mother who's "dropped out" (or IN, from her persective).  I sat for 50 minutes enduring their sad seeker baloney--and they're obviously vapid, rich jerks, plonked down in one of the poorer countries of the world (India)--traveling along aboard the train called the Darjeeling Limited.  Adrien Brody does have a moment to shine, and it's when the TRUE spiritual moment of the film happens (SPOILER ALERT) as he and his brothers save two of three boys who've fallen off their raft into a rapid river.  Now, a point can be made here, IF you believe in this sort of thing; they were in the right place at the right time--and THAT is what they should have acknowledged.  Yet, they go back to being vapid, spoiled drifters.  Still, even since the film makers didn't acknowledge that, other than visually, it still SAYS SOMETHING.  BUT, I think they were too involved in making something on the order of "Easy Rider" (with doofuses) and shot the message in the foot by wasting our time with the rest of it.  Their "apology" (IMHO) was in a scene near the end--a fellini moment--where the camera pans through each compartment of the train, including Bill Murray and the Tiger, as if to say;
"we're all on a journey through life, it may seem futile, but we're ALL together while doing it".  In making this 1960's style statement, I might admire, if it weren't for the fact that the 1960's were NO FUN.  Assasinations, war, & civil unrest made it all a turnmoil.  A few good movies commented on this.  This movie fails to hit the bulls eye in trying to achieve that, as it leaves the majority of the mass audience out of a punch line to the joke; despite our best efforts, we only succeed while we're busy making other plans, and maybe don't even notice we have succeeded.  these film makers haven't.