Made is so money! Probably because auteur Jon Farveau is behind and responsible for it.
Jon-Jon's swinging back into theaters with his long anticipated follow-up to Swingers, which he also wrote and starred in. Egomaniac? No just a mega-talented beau. 
Swingers also launched that tall glass of man, Vince Vaughn, into the mainstream. Scrumptious, and talented. Two words: Evil sexy!
Made almost rejoins the Swingers characters Jon and Vince immortalized, as Mike and Trent. The Ying-n-Yang of friends. They're similar in that Vaughn is that same kind of lounge-lizard-esque con man without a con, dimwitted with an air of ill-placed superiority and Favreau is his signature calm steady, studying fellow just trying to make it in the big bad voodoo world. The wanna be tough guy/schmuckazoid with the heart of gold. Both are as relaxed and realistic as with their last teaming.
The dialog too is, once again, entertaining fast paced and remarkably believable. If you love voyeuristic films where the film maker almost gives an eerie spying-on-their-lives-as-they-live-them sensation, Made's been made for you. 
But, please don't get me wrong. This is no remake, or hack-fest-rip-off extravaganza where a one-shot hotshot writer rewrites a couple of scenes from his first script, then repackages it with a hip title and slips it under the publics' noses. No. Made is fresh and original with two buddies who happen to be similar to his past work.... 
Favreau, who wrote and directed this, has once again successfully mixed action, comedy and drama in equal parts. Subtle pieces, like the boys' continual arguing which leaves them progressively cut and bruised in the film, or the rapid cliche' ridden banter by Vaughn, just ad to the hilarity of Made. 
He and Vaughn shine so brightly together, they snagged Made's whole 1000 watt spotlight and left a 15 watt bulb for the rest of the equally bright cast.
Actress, Famke Janssen, is her usual impeccable self. Once again she brings to the screen another femme fatale played to perfection. She was gorgeous as Jesse the stripper/single mom Bobby's willing to end up sleeping with the fishes for. 
Sean Combs was okay. Nothing spectacular or Oscar worthy...I'll wait till his next outing to judge da man. Evidently he's been Commander McBragging all around the press circuit about his spectacular performance. Maybe they edited it?
Vince Vaughn had me all hot and bothered to be sure. Thank goodness he was so obnoxious in this&#65533; because at his last, sadly, hardly seen movie, The Cell, I had to be reprimanded by pimply multiplex staffettes a few times for cat calling at the screen. Here, by shear repulsion of the character, I was able to maintain a remarkably calm composure. That tall hunky mankabab sandwich !
Get out and see this as soon as you can. Be there opening day, if you know of Farveau's work. He'll be hosting a "talk" show on cable's Independent Film Channel .