What makes this movie great is it's heart and it's plot!

Andy, the boy from the other two Toy Stories is going to college. He bundles his fav toys for the attic, for his memories or for children (when he has them). They get sent by mistake to Sunnyside daycare center. Instead of loving care they are given to the youngest, most out of control preschoolers with violence and anger management issues. Woody and Buzz Lightyear, et al, are used to hammer in pegs, for the kids to bite, spill food on.

 At night, when adults and brats are away, the daycare center is run like a prison by sadistic toy Lotso, the Strawberry Bear with the help of a vaccuous fashion plate Ken (Ken and Barbie). Them the plot turns into the 1950's Classic Cool Hand Luke, with The Bear playing the part of The Captain (made famous by Strother Martin) and Woody playing Cool Hand Luke (the Paul Newman part) and Ken as a "Boss". Strawberry Bear doesn't say "What we have here is failure to communicate" but he does everything but, he has the same cane and the same accent, same attitude. He puts Mr. Potatohead in "the box" for punishment, (those aren't cigars in the sand!) Buzz Lightyear gets rebooted to "Boss" and romantic Latin Lover modes. Kids won't get any of these insider jokes, it will all fly over their heads, but I defy an adult to watch this movie without being near tears in places. I won't give away anymore plot, but just say its quite bittersweet to all who remember their childhood toys and earlier days and going to college. The ending is not as dark as Cool Hand Luke - it IS a kids movie!

For those readers unfamiliar with Cool Hand, I recommend you see this movie and then rent the classic at the video store. An AFI Top 100 Movies of All Time.

This could be the best Toy Story of the series, it certainly has the most detailed and emotional plot.

The Next Big Thing seems to be 3D and there are more 3D movies than you can shake a stick at. Mostly trash. Hollywood should learn that it's not special effects or 3D that will bring people to the movies, it's movies with good plots, acting or in the case of Toy Story 3 good characterization. This movie has heart. Take the kids but it's really a must see for the parents who remember...