My sister got this for my Dad for Christmas a few years ago for $10 at one of those Big Lots type places and because of the price I never borrowed it thinking it was low quality.  I borrowed it one Halloween and wasn't disappointed, it is close to Unsolved Mysteries but each episode is just short of 50 min.  It is in my Halloween rotation now.

The box and cases themselves are nothing special, it's a plain box with each disk in a slim case, but I sometimes think DVD seasons are a little too fancy and take up a little too much space.  This is a 9 DVD set and for the size it takes up on a shelf it's great.

A few things that this set didn't do well on:

Video quality.  It gets a little grainy at times, not as bad as some DVDs but you really notice it if you have a HDTV.

Chapter Markers.  One advantage about DVDs is the ability to skip intros so after the first one you don't have to see the opening for every episode.  Season 1, 2, and 3 had every episode as one chapter so if you hit skip then it went to the next episode.  Season 4 got it correct and when you hit skip once it went right into the story, skipping the intro.  I know some people don't care about this but when I watch TV I binge on it, watching a few DVDs or a few TV episodes on my Tivo device so skipping is important to me.

Overall I think the acting and locations were alright but I took off one star for quality and one star for chapter markers.  I would still recommend it even with these small flaws.

EDIT:  I want to add this is not the complete set, there are two movie length episodes that led to the production to these seasons.  They are 'A HAUNTING IN CONNECTICUT' and 'A HAUNTING IN GEORGIA'.  One of them was made into a major motion picture so make sure you get the 'documentary' ones instead.  They come as a double feature DVD on Amazon, only $9.99, I'm going to get that and see what it's like.  I can't say much for them as I haven't watched them but I'm going to get them before next Halloween and update this review.