We all love Bond films. Goldeneye, You Only Live Twice - they're classics. But how many times can you re-use a formula before it becomes...well, rotten? This is the 19th - YES 19th Bond film, where the formula is the  same as always. Opening pre-title sequence, Bond villain, Bond babes, Bond  car, Bond gadgets, Bond/Q argument, cheesy Bond puns, Bond car/plane  chases...it's all there. But the trouble is, it's the same as it was last  time. And the time before that. And the time before THAT. You see, we're  tired of hearing the same convoluted world-domination plans, tired of Bond  relentlessly sleeping with every woman in range. It's time for something  fresh. But do we get it? No. Same garbled plans. Same sex. There isn't a  drop of originality in the film. First the bad guy, Renard. Not a bad  performance from Robert Carlyle, but he doesn't appear for 45 mins - maybe  an hour. And he is little more than a henchmen to Sophie Marceau's villain,  daughter of an oil executive, who's annoyed that he didn't pay her kidnap  ransom, so she had him killed and now wants to take over the oil industry  by detonating a nuclear bomb and wiping out all oil pipelines except her  own. RUBBISH. Who writes this nonsense? The plots have always been silly,  but never THIS silly. Back to Renard. He can't feel pain (it's the movie  equivalent of lepricy, brought about by a VERY unlikely bullet-wound), but  never uses this wisely. He COULD survive explosions, jump out of buildings  etc. No. He bangs his hand through a table, and gets hit a few times.  BORING. Sophie Marceau's villain gets sillier as the film progresses, until  her well deserved demise. Denise Richards is the back-up (and superfluous)  Bond babe, who Bond quickly does the business with the moment Marceau is  out of the way (oh, that's love. Yeah, RIGHT...). Judy Dench is atleast  given a lot to do as M, and the late (great) Desmond Llwellyn does a nice  exit as Q (ably replaced by John Cleese). Pierce Brosnan does the usual  smirks as Bond, but the character has become rather tired recently (as has  the forumla). The opening theme (sung by Garbage - appropriate name  considering the film attatched) is dreary and slow. Nothing compared to  Tina Turner's Goldeneye. Everything about this film - even the visuals,  which range from mildly nice to downright dull - is tired, formulaic and  unoriginal. It's not worth bothering with, unless you're a very committed  Bond fan with little else to do. Oh, the opening sequence is far too long,  Robbie Coltrane gets killed and John Cleese's guest spot as "R"  (oh ha ha) barely stretches beyond a minute. On the whole, a cheap, cheesy,  uninspired, poorly written and formula-reliant clone of the Bond theme,  with few twists or turns, and a totally predictable turn of events  throughout. The car gets blown up within seconds of use, too.