The "Stepford Wives" is every man's fantasy and every feminist's nightmare come to life. Based on the book by Ira Levin, the film is a commentary on the social roles of men and women within society, taken to the extreme. 
 The film tells the story of Joanna Eberhart (Katherine Ross), a wife and mother, who is being reluctantly uprooted from her home and career as a photographer in New York City, to a quiet little community known as Stepford.....a suburban Garden of Eden, seemingly picture-perfect in every way. Although unhappy, Joanna gamely attempts to make this new life work for the sake of her husband and children. She even plays the dutiful hostess for the local men's club, which her husband, Walter, is joining. It isn't long however, before Joanna begins to suspect that something is not quite right about the town and it's inhabitants, especially the women, who seem to have absolutely no aspirations other than being the perfect housewife and mother.
 Fortunately, Joanna finds an ally in the form of Bobbie Marco (Paula Prentiss), also a new arrival in town, who shares Joanna's distaste for her surroundings. Together, the two women attempt to bolster the local women toward higher ambitions than that of cooking, cleaning, and beauty tips. All to no avail.
 As the film progresses, Joanna and Bobbi become increasingly convinced that something sinister is going on here and are determined to get to the root of the matter. After Bobbi returns from a weekend get-away with her husband, Joanna is horrified to find that Bobbi has become like all the rest of the wives. Only then does Joanna stumble upon the town's terrible secret.
 The film's climax is effectively disturbing and doesn't sell-out for the "happily ever after" ending that so many films do. Then again, depending on your viewpoint, maybe it does. A thought provoking film, it raises the questions of how men and women view each other and what it is that they want and expect from the opposite sex as well as what are the "perfect" qualities which make up a mate.
 The performances are generally good all around with Paula Prentiss providing the bulk of the comic relief in the movie. Her character is the antithesis of the perfect housewife and is not shy about showing her dislike for all things domestic. A very young Mary Stewart Masterson makes her screen debut here as one of Joanna's two daughters.
 The Silver Anniversary Edition DVD is a high quality product and includes a widescreen format, interviews with director Bryan Forbes, Producer Edgar J. Scherick and cast members Katherine Ross, Paula Prentiss, Nanette Newman and Peter Masterson. It also contains the theatrical trailer, radio spots, talent bios, and a language selection.