This 1974 movie opened to generally negative reviews. Probably because most discerning movie-goers thought Angela Lansbury should've gotten the role, having been such a hit in the stage version.

Lucy was also about 15-20 years older than the role called for, which rubbed many traditionalists the wrong way.  In the context of today, when the range of appropriate and respectable behavior for women in their 50's and 60's has expanded considerably, we are probably much more forgiving of her audacity in tackling the role of a middle-aged woman(she was 62 during filming).  Unfortunately, she is filmed in such an extremely soft focus, you want to rub your eyes or squeegee your tv screen every other scene.

Otherwise, Lucy's beauty still shows - in 4 very different colored hair-dos, no less. Still tall, fit, broad-shouldered and leggy, Lucy carries her many sylish outfits terrifically, befitting the one-time fashion model from the 20's and 30's.

Another weakness is Lucy's singing voice, which is so low and lacking in vibrato, that in the more maudlin numbers, the effect can be pretty painful.  However, those numbers are very few, and more than overshadowed by the many upbeat sequences, including some really wonderful classics, for which her limited singing voice is perfectly well suited.  And, even at 62, and in recovery from a recently broken leg (during a skiing trip to Snowmass, Co in 1972), her dancing is remarkable skillful and agile (during her glamour days in the 1940's, practically every other role of hers entailed dancing.)

The comedy acting from just about everyone in the cast is first rate.  Lucy's deep, gravelly voice, so ill-equipped for singing, is perfectly suited to the dead-pan one liners and humorous dialogue that she delivers with the skill and aplomb of an old pro.  And, the physical comedy skills and timing for which she is legendary is on ample display.  In addition, many of the comedic performances in the supporting cast are hilarious, particularly Bea Arthur, Jane Connell, Robert Preston, Joyce Van Patten, and Audrey Christie.  It's the small role of Gloria Upson, played by Doria Cook, though, that never fails to crack me up.

Despite this movie's abysmal reputation, or maybe because of it, the quality and entertainment value will far exceed your expectations.  What seemed in 1974 an old-fashioned and dated vanity piece for a fading star, seems today like a musical and comedy extravaganza starring a timeless legend.