How powerful is one voice? Born on the Forth of July is a great film that is proving itself to be a classic. This film was directed by Oliver Stone and is arguably his best. This film is based on the autobiographical book titled Born on the Forth of July written by Vietnam War veteran Ron Kovic. Tom Cruise plays Kovic, in a performance that earned him his first Academy Award nomination. Oliver Stone (himself a Vietnam veteran) co-wrote the screenplay with Kovic, and also produced and directed the film. There are countless films that have been made about war. This very well could be the best of them all. Born on the Forth of July  is the story of Vietnam Marine soldier that goes to Vietnam to fight for his county and comes home paralyzed. It is said that Kovic was inspired by President John F. Kennedy's "Ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country" speech. When Kovic comes home he has a different war to fight. The one within himself. Kovic eventually becomes an influential activist in the anti-war movement and was a speaker at the 1976 Democratic National Convention.  Ron Kovic presented Tom Cruise with his Bronze Star medal on the final day of filming Born on the Fourth of July explaining to the actor that he was giving him the award as a gift for his "courageous portrayal of the true horrors of war." Time Magazine reported that Oliver Stone said, "He gave it to Tom for bravery for having gone through this experience in hell as much as any person can without actually having been there." This is a real film that will test you in many ways. Ultimately the viewer will walk away wiser and more contemplative about the nature of war and government. Born on the Forth of July explains the different levels of patriotism and anti-patriotism and makes a strong argument for both sides. This is a historical motion picture everyone should watch at some point in their life. If this was shown in history classes the world would be a much different place. This is film making with a purpose. Watch. Think. Live.