I don't use the word perfect often. But I will say this movie hit every mark for what I expect and hope to see in a western. nevermind the fact that it takes place in Australia. The Proposition is easily the best Western film I've seen since Eastwood's magnum opus, Unforgiven. Actually it shares a lot with Unforgiven. The realistic approach to characters, the fuzzy line of right and wrong, characters and their sordid past.
If I had to sum this up into just a few words, I'd say the film is poignant, you get a sense of sorrow watching it. You watch Ray Winstone's character attempt at all lengths to bring justice to this lawless little town. You can sense the past of the Burns brothers, without the need of any flashbacks. You get a perfect sense of their relationship. The story is about these three brothers, and an offer made to Charlie (Guy Pearce). This offer, extended by Winstones character, Captain Stanley. The offer is simple, kill your older brother, a psychotic murderer, to save your younger brother.
In many ways Pearce's character is the "star" but the film balances its leads very well. This is the first film I've seen from Director John Hilcoat. he captures the mood and tones of a place we thought only existed in Western America. But the outback is the perfect setting for a western. The directing of the film is stellar, it evokes that somber tone, the shots are set up so well. Each frame is used to its full potential whether simply portraying the harshness of the Outback or capturing the remorse on faces after a brutal public whipping. Again, the film hits every mark. What little 'action' it does have is absolutely crucial to the story and is speckled throughout, unlike most modern westerns that feel you have to continually build. The Proposition knows how and when to show its action scenes. And as a side note, if you pick this up of Blu Ray, be prepared for an incredible picture. The colors in this film make me remember why I bought a BD player in the first place. All the dust, and the heat, and the flies are captured in such stunning realistic detail, its worth many times what you pay for it.
Nick Cave wrote the script, weird I know. But the guy has done an incredible job of allowing the audience to really feel for the characters and to step into their boots when they're on the screen. Nick simply wanted to compose a score for a Western, Nick would go on to score the underrated but lengthy Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford. But Hilcoat asked him to write a film, some Cave had never done before. Which is very hard to believe considering the emotion, timing and style portrayed in his script. The gruffness of Captain Stanley (Winstone), the boyish regret from the youngest Burns brother. John Hurt makes a small but unforgettable performance as a bounty hunter, but his characters lines sum up the entire mood of the time period. I'm hoping Cave continues to write as he obviously knows what he's doing.
Ok so I think I've rattled on long enough about the film. But in closing, I bought this movie at the whim of remembering the trailer I'd seen way back in '06 when it first came to DVD. The price on the Blu ray was amazingly low, so I picked it up. Since buying it i've been showing it off to all my friends, dragging the over in an attempt to share this beautiful film with them. And each one has loved it just as much as I did. If you're a western fan, or just a fan of period dramas in general, pick The Proposition up.