I was really excited when I heard about this reissue/remaster, especially the extra material and improvement of the audio. For 30 years this film has been a mixed blessing/curse of great live playing and poor film making, bad editing choices and worse wigs. The excellent DVD release of 2003 gave me hope and I thought JP and Co. would finally do it justice, by giving us more complete, less chopped up performances. While this reissue is nicely done, especially the remastered sound, I think it could have been so much better.
For example, the inclusion of additional songs is great but frustrating.
While it's great to finally see the omitted songs performed, the quick cut editing is so frequent that I feel like I'm watching a video produced for VH-1 rather than a concert performance. WTF!... Do they think that most people don't have the attention span to watch Jimmy Page actually play a solo from start to finish? I don't know, maybe garbage pop culture has changed the way we experience live music on film too much. I can understand filling in missing gaps with other footage but this is extreme.
There's a cut like every 1/2 second!
I think many of us also hoped that we might have the option of watching the actual performances rather than the fantasy sequences; the solos on No Quarter, Dazed and Moby Dick I could watch over and over but, as for for the fantasy sequences, once is enough! Legal reasons or whatever, alas, it was not to be. We still have to sit through lame acting and silly drama (except for Bonzo's unpretentious scenes). It always irks me that people talk so much about how great a band is/was and then they do a film to show how great the band is/was and then they don't just simply show the band playing! I disagree with the description on the insert...this is "not" the version fans have been waiting for. That version would be a Director's Cut with the concert footage only, in original performance order.
Ultimately, despite the old and new flaws, it's still nice to have the improved quality print and sound as well as the extras. I just hope that Jimmy goes into the vaults and gives us a real concert film someday, (like he did with Royal Albert Hall '70), sans t-shirt and postcards.