In high school, I must have rented this movie countless times from Netflix. It was my absolute favorite movie, but then I kinda forgot about it for a while when I ultimately fell off of movies a bit. That was, until I realized I had forgotten to bring my own movie to watch during my most recent blood platelet donation. I simply HAD to watch it again, hoping it would recapture at least some of the magic it had for me as a high schooler. I'm happy to say it didn't recapture SOME of the magic; rather, it recaptured every bit of it. But you may ask, why do I still love this movie so much?

Well, for one, it makes great use of some of my favorite music of all time. Songs by iconic bands such as AC/DC, Led Zeppelin, The Ramones, The Who and Cream (among others) help add the appropriate musical assistance to an already phenomenal and somewhat heart-warming story. Jack Black plays arguably the most appropriate role for him (outside of Tenacious D at least). Personally, I would kill to have him as my substitute teacher. The writing in the movie, and the overall plotting, are very well played out; it never drags, and it isn't laden with predictability. The writers of this movie definitely knew what they were doing in terms of making a movie about rock 'n' roll.

The kids in the movie are absolutely precocious and phenomenal. They have actual CHARACTER to them rather than just being cute, and all the ones who perform with the band are ACTUALLY playing and singing, both during the music class scene and during the rock band practice. No autotune, no air guitar, no lip synching, no ghost keyboards... it's all natural. And the song the band plays at the Battle Of The Bands competition is a phenomenal anthem that deserved to be a smash hit, honestly. Finally, the best thing about this movie: it teaches kids who may see it a bit of history of some REAL music. Forget about today's scene, tripe like Miley Cyrus and Justin Bieber and the Jonas Brothers are topping the charts and it's depressing. This movie gives kids insight onto when music was not about corporate sellouts like them, but about one thing and one thing only: REBELLION, sticking it to "the man" (a common phrase throughout the movie) rather than giving in to what "the man" wants you to do.

The bottom line is that for a rock 'n' roll history lesson, a great story, and a chance to watch some kids really show what they have as musicians, then this movie is perfect. It's still held up for me after all these years.