Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil is one of very few movies in recent years that I can honestly say that I have enjoyed--enjoyed so much in fact that I have yet to tire of it despite watching it numerous times.  The movie is the adaptation of John Berendt's best selling semi-fictionalized expose of the city of Savannah and the sensational 1981 murder of Danny Hansford (Billy Hanson in the movie) by his employer/lover Jim Williams, a wealthy antique collector and historical preservationist.  In adapting the story to film, changes naturally had to be made that would make the story more tolerable and understandable to the moviegoer, and anyone who has read the book will know that unfortunately, a fair bit had to be compromised as a result.  This is not to say that the adaptation is "off" or that the movie is poor; the movie on its own is quite good, and one has to admit that a fair effort was made to incorporate many of the quirky elements of  the original story into the plot.  Still, much was left out, so much so that at times there are seens where ambiguous statements and references are made, which if one had not read the book would not quite understand why the character says or does what they say and do.  So really, in order to fully appreciate the movie, one must have read the book.  
The casting for the movie is excellent.  Spacey is quite convincing as the central character Jim Williams, the  antiques deal who guns down Billy Hanson  following his annual Christmas party.  Cusak also does a commendable job as John Kelso, the New York writer sent down to cover William's Christmas Party and who subsequently finds himself very much involved in uncovering the truth of what happened the night of the shooting.  The performance that I enjoyed most, however, was that of Paul Hipp, who played the characted of Joe Odom, a former lawyer turned musician whose social and business exploits are unfortunately not developed to any great extent in the movie.  His disappearance from the plot halfway through the movie is also somewhat disappointing.  And lastly, although I was a little miffed by the love-story element added to the film version, the role of Mandy was also well played by the director's daughter. 
One interesting aspect of the movie was the casting of some of the original characters in the story.  Most notable is, of course, that of The Lady Chablis who plays a somewhat more restrained version of herself .  Sonny Seiler, the famous owner of the University of Georgia mascot UGA, who was originally a member of Williams' defense team, plays the judge.  Two others who make brief appearances are Jerry the hairdresser mentioned briefly in the book  and the recently deceased Emma Kelly, the Lady of Six Thousand Songs.  
The DVD version of course includes added "features"  but in this case they are not all that extensive.  They do, however, provide those unfamiliar with the orginal story a little bit of background on the characters and places in the movie.