For anyone who has seen enough movies, they will start to notice a pattern-this pattern being the "one-sided" character.  Bad guys who are more like brainless killing machines, good guys who never make mistakes, and stereotypical cultural behavior are all aspects of Hollywood film production these days.  However, movies like Witness have the ability to entertain as well as challenge the Hollywood stereotypes that were so prevelant in the 80's when this film was made.

This is the story of John Book, a Philadelphia police detective who is assigned to investigate a muder in a train station restroom.  The only witness is a young boy named Samuel.  Samuel is quite different from many children his age, as he is Amish.  However, this difference is portrayed with a sense of admiration and respect that serves a purpose.  When Samuel recognizes one of the killers as a police detective, Book attempts to report this to his superiors at the police department.  The attempt to go through proper channels backfires when Book is ambushed, wounded, and nearly killed in a parking garage.

With a bullet wound and concern for the safety of Samuel, his mother (Rachel) and himself, Book flees the city and seeks refuge in the Amish community where Samuel lives.  Gradually, Book is nursed back to health and begins the process of learning the Amish lifestyle.  What develops during the rest of the film is a down to earth look at what happens when two worlds mix together and the good/bad elements of both.  I won't give away all of the plot details, but I will say that there are several scenes that challenge Hollywood stereotypes.

Some people may criticize Kelly McGillis' portrayal of Rachel, saying that a real Amish woman would not act that way.  However, Amish folks are human beings who feel sexual desire, confusion, and pressure from the family and social surroundings just like we do. Rachel does seem to give in to her attraction for Book, but in the end her devotion to the Amish lifestyle prevails; the interaction with Book shows an inner struggle within herself to figure out what she really values in life.

During the movie, the Amish also learn more about Book and realize that he has value as a worker and as a person, and they cannot condemn him simply because he is from modern society.  There are a couple of weak points in this movie.  One of them is the performance by Danny Glover, who has very little screen time and does not get to use his talent as an actor very much.  Even though he is a bad guy in the film, I believe he could have shown some depth if given the opportunity.  The climax scene with the shootout seemed a bit heavy handed and poorly planned for the characters.  I mean if they had law enforcement training, weapons training, and were good at covering up corruption, they could have come up with a better attack plan than barging in and shooting up the farm in broad daylight.

The one redeeming quality is when the surviving attacker has a moment of remorse and humanity at the end.  This proves to be the only depth of character in the movie's villans.  Overall, this is an enjoyable film and has some nice scenery, which was filmed in Lancaster County, PA.  Four stars.