I am well-versed with Greek mythology, but this movie's plot and direction was all over the place. I personally think Greek mythology (and Roman, Indian, and Norse, for that matter) is ripe for action movie-making, especially with today's brilliant special effects. But after seeing this movie, I remembered things like plots, direction, casting, dialogue, and production matter.

It certainly looks pretty, I'll give it that--and it doesn't have that slightly false, kind of strange look that "300" had to it's backgrounds, for example. Shading, shadows, and coloring is used well during battle-scenes to make certain scenes particularly enjoyable. However, the sound is off--not sure why, but at times I had the sound turned up to 75, so I could hear dialogue,which was kinda sad because it only made sense about half the time, and then dropped it to 30 during the battles.

However, I found the film deeply boring and predictable. I looked at the clock at least 15 times during the film on DVD, and I strongly suspect I might have gotten up and left if it was in the theater. I'm not sure why it's so boring, exactly--for one, there is no reason to care for any of the characters, as they are shallowly drawn caricatures, at best, or simply faces with names, at worse--but there is also heavy use of slow-motion scenes and long, "zooming in" and "zooming out" shots of landscapes. Some scenes and transitions just took a LONG time! I strongly suspect this was a 60 minute film, extended to be become "production" length by cheesy use of slow motions, landscapes, and repeated shots of things that didn't matter (foggy walls, the metal bull, Olympus, etc). I'm frankly a little tired of the use slow-motion fight scenes in Hollywood, though I didn't even reallize it until watching this film. I'm not sure what other reviewers are talking about when they mention all the fight scenes as if there are many--I think there is 1 or 2 in the first hour of the movie--and maybe 2 or 3, including the longer one at the end, in the last hour--and other than the final fight, I think they last 2 or 3 minutes at the most. Furthermore, and most damningly, they are essentially the same scenes one sees in the advertisements. There really isn't that much else, though they are longer.

I personally found Henry Cavill decent in a poorly-written role (for example, why would the army at the end rally to his words, since he's not part of them and has done everything possible to avoid involvement in the conflict with the army who asked him to join them?), and Frieda Pinto (as always) gorgeous and watchable, but her character was essentially a trope with little true value in moving the plot forward, and who loses her powers of predestination after she is knocked up by the hero (wow, what does THAT say?). I did not like Mickey Rourke's character or characterization, as written or performed, and I'm generally a Rourke fan...too mindlessly evil and selfish, though not particularly intimidating, maybe a little too bizarre. Why does he, when the gods ignore his call for help, decide to kill the gods by releasing the titans, rather than concluding there are no gods (which is actually more rational)? Why does he want a magic bow, the Nuclear Weapon of the Greek World, that he then uses exactly twice?  Why would he conclude the gods, who beat the titans once, wouldn't do it again?  Why does he keep switching out from amongst a series of garish masks? Why does he struggle so with speaking full sentences without an East Coast accent?

And finally...the battle between the titans and gods at the end. Kinda good, except it made no sense according to the mythology. So the titans are a bunch of frenetic, bestial, grey-skinned, normal-sized PEOPLE with no fighting skills and who basically explode when the gods swing sticks and pointy knives into them? The gods are essentially played like superheroes in this movie, but the titans (who are supposed to be immortal, powerful GIANTS against whom the gods rebelled--and barely survived! They were imprisoned because they were too powerful to kill and too dangerous to leave loose!) basically act like the mindless, swarming vampires in "Blade III." C'mon, seriously?

In the end, it might be decent popcorn fare for a Saturday or Sunday afternoon when it's raining or snowing too much outide, as long as you can rent it or get it for a discounted price.