To the reviewer who titled his one-star review "Oh, Please," perhaps you should acquire some sense of perspective. Hussein was certainly a brutal tyrant, but he did not kill MILLIONS of his subjects. Tens of thousands, yes, perhaps even hundreds of thousands. But MILLIONS? No.

Perhaps the distinction is lost on you, and in terms of whether it makes Hussein a MORE or LESS evil brute, it is insignificant. However, it is crucial that WE make sure we are scrupulous when discussing the evil deeds of others, or, in general, when discussing anything which requires careful deliberation prior to acting. Hyperbole merely destroys the perspective which is necessary to determine just what actions ARE appropriate, and WHEN such actions must be carried out.

You say you don't care whether Hussein had WMD or whether he was linked to 9/11, both of which were falsehoods promulgated by the Bush administration. The importance of whether our President tells the truth or not, especially in such urgent matters of state as waging war, should be obvious to anyone, and that you don't see it implies you lack a capacity to appreciate the damage done by such lies.

Nontheless, I'll give it a shot: our country is based on the premise that we are self-governing; we elect persons to office to represent us and to act FOR us in passing laws and managing affairs of state for the general welfare. In order to act in our own interest, we must know who we're actually electing, and we must know what they intend to do, based on who they tell us they are. When they're in office, we must trust they're telling us the truth so we may express our educated approval or disapproval of their decisions BEFORE they're enacted. To go to war based on lies is to deny the people the right to have their will acted upon. Once a president or other public official is caught lying, we can never know when they will lie in future, or even if they'll EVER tell us the truth. How can we govern ourselves when those who represent us tell us lies and act according to reasons of their own? We can't.

Moreover, how can we engage in diplomatic relations with other nations if they cannot trust that we're acting truthfully and in good faith? Again, we can't.

As with anyone who lies, the lie poisons one's ability ever to interact with that person again, as one can never trust that one will not be fooled or taken advantage of, or know whether the other party is acting for our best interests or for his own agenda.

All that said, UNCOVERED is excellent, and reveals this administration's terrible propensity to prevaricate to suit its own purposes. They could have gone to the UN and to Congress and tried to make a humanitarian case for removing Hussein: his brutality to his own people. This being a representative Republic, we the people could have decided to support the war or not based on factual reasons for going. But the Bushies feared the people would not consider such reasons sufficient to wage war over, and they subverted democracy by lying to us in order that we would not stop their war of choice, a war they have carried out NOT because of any of the reasons they told us, but for geopolitical and ideological reasons of their own.

If this film were shown to every voter before November, we can be certain Bush would have no chance of regaining office. He may not in any case, but with the illumination provided by this film, it would be, as George Tenet said, " a SLAM DUNK!"

HIGHEST RATING!!