I stumbled across this video in December 2005. After reading many reviews, I ordered it for my micro-preemie daughter who was 14 months old at the time. I can't say enough good things about this DVD. I have read the complaints of others about it not being as "professionally produced" as Baby Einstein, etc., and frankly, it is not a polished big budget video. However, the CONTENT of the video is outstanding. The video was made by two speech pathologists, who emphasize proper language development. Every early intervention specialist that I have told about this video was extremely impressed with the emphasis on developing proper sounds and speech through very simple, repetitive phrases, sounds, facial expressions, and sign language.

Now for the critic that really matters; my daughter. She absolutely LOVES this video. From the very first time she saw it she was mesmerized! She is now almost 26 months old and she still loves it. It is by far, her favorite video. When it is on, the world around her simply stops because she is so focused on her movie. She has definitely benefited from the repetition of watching Baby Babble. She repeats sounds and phrases from it as well as sign language. We are a very language rich home and we are always talking and interacting with our children, so we are not using this as a substitute for interaction with her. Instead, we use it as another tool in encouraging her language development. It is inevitable that she is language delayed; she was born 16 weeks early, so we do everything we can to help foster proper language development. Even my gifted 6 year old son enjoys watching Baby Babble with his sister, and gets so excited when she repeats words, phrases, and sign language from the video.

It also has parent tutorials that are very informative about language development, sign language, and activities to do with you children to encourage language development.

If you are looking for a video that will have a tremendous effect on your child and his language development, look no further than Baby Babble. It is by far the best $20 I have ever spent.