The first time I seen this film, was back when T.V.'s still only had 3, maybe 4 channels, and the only way you could see movies like these was on a Friday or Saturday night program called "Shock Theater".  These programs would show older horror and sci-fi flicks, and almost always had a 'horror host' to introduce the films, and usually make bad and cheesy jokes, in a creepy sort of way, before or after commercial breaks.
  The sets in this 'frightmare' are what make this Invaders from Mars eerie for me, because they are from the viewpoint of a child.  A child who has loving parents, just like I had.  But things start to change, after the boy witnesses a 'flying saucer' land, somewhere behind his home.  The ship goes underground, and the boy tells his kind and patient father about it.  When Dad checks on it, he's swallowed up in the earth.  He returns as a mean, abusive man that the kid is terrified of.  His mother becomes another victim, with the help of the kid's dad.  The one scene, where the kid is in the towering police station trying to get help, his now maritan-controlled mother comes to get him.  When the boy runs to his mother to embrace her, a close-up of her face shows her with a dead expression, with no feeling.  Her eyebrow raises as she looks right into the camera, as if to say; "I'm one of 'Them', now", I found disturbing.  A child psychologist is called for by one of the cops, and she tends to believe the kid, seeing that his fear is real.  Plus she's a redhead, and darn-tootin' hot looking.  (sorry, had to throw that in) : )
  Told from a childs' point of view during this time frame, where the Cold War with communism, and the fear of indoctrination into a system of government that had little regard for human life, was very real then, as it should be even today.  And that fear is very well expressed to the viewer.  Just as in another cold war classic; Invasion of the Body Snatchers, the use of odd camera angles and fear of the unknown, is what makes this movie for me.  It bothered me as a child, and is still frightening to this day for small children.  Yes, it does have it's 'cheesy' moments, no doubt.  But they can be overlooked when one just takes the movie for what it is; 50's Science fiction. A bit of trivia:  The balloon looking things hanging from the ceiling of the underground labyrinth the martians made, are actually blown up condoms.  And everything was filmed on a soundstage, except of course the generous amount of stock footage of soldiers and tanks training during World War II, and the car/jeep chase scene.
  Fun to watch!  Highly recommend!  Stay away from the 1980's remake!  It's stupid, and is not even remotely scary in any way!