To say Hitch's "Shadow of a Doubt" is a great film would be fair; but in all honesty, looking back on the films (hundreds by now, maybe thousands) I've seen, there are few that have left such an indelible  impression on me. 
By now, everyone knows the story of Uncle Charlie and  his adoring niece and how she slowly uncovers the truth behind her  mysterious uncle's past.
What's brilliant about this movie is the way it  foreshadowed and still influences movies today. Think of "Blue  Velvet" and its portrayal of the naive small town boy uncovering a  secret to his sleepy little town. Or even "The Third Man" just a  few years later where, ironically, Joseph Cotton finds the truth about his  best friend, Orson Welles.
What makes this film endure is its theme: The  loss of innocence. the innocence of Teresa Wright's adoring neice (watch  the brilliant scene in the bar where she sits down with Joseph Cotton), the  innocence of Charlie's family and of course, the innocence of Santa Rosa  itself.
Perhaps Hitchcock and Thornton Wilder were prophetic in the way  they mapped out the loss of America's innocence especially after the war.  (the film was released around then). Look at our society now and how  everything has changed. The 50's were looked upon as the decade we lost our  innocence (Some even point far later to the Vietnam war as the period that  ended it) but Hitchcock back in the 40's was saying that everything was not  all right, and that bad things just didn't happen in dark alleys and dark  houses, that it could happen on the sunniest of days and in most Apple Pie,  White picket fence homes. 
And then, of course, is the equally superb and  brilliantly understated ending where Joseph Cotton's Uncle Charlie is being  mourned in his death as a hero is equal parts chilling and darkly amusing.  Hitch's point? That we still live in denial, that we may need people like  Teresa Wright's Charlie to keep the lie hidden, because we aren't able to  look at ourselves in the mirror and see that dark side and embrace it.  
No wonder this film was Hitch's fave. Hitch loved to explore the dark  side of the everyman (or every woman) and along with Strangers on a Train,  Vertigo, Rear Window and Psycho, they form a collection of films that  perfectly dissects the human condition and this theme.
A truly great film  worth watching over and over.