When I walzted into blockbuster the other day(but like any other day) i head straight for the anime section. Being an avid fan of anime, i plunge headlong into any anime and/or manga,knowing relativley nothing about it.

So, as my sister and I stood pondering over which dvd to grab(we were there for well over ten minutes) We snatched whatever was looked at least hlfway decent, and it just happened to be appleseed and escaflowne.

We had a portable dvd player in the car, and, because I knew alittle bit about appleseed, we watched that first. Holy crap(excuse my bluntness) but i was amazed and had thoroughly enjoyed mysef. That was a really great movie, But that's beside the point.

So when we did finally return home, i was in a good mood and hadhigh hopes that escaflowne would be good too, although i have never heard of it. We popped the dvd in and began to watch.

Well, my sister is very imature and kept commenting on Hitomi's nose. ahh... she's so annoying, but I didn't care particularly how the character's looked. It seemed intresting in the beginning, how Hitomi persieved life, and it made sense how she felt. Then the wierd stuff began.

I guess because i haven't watched the tv series, i didin't really understand gaia at all. the wasn't much history in the movie , so I didn't understand hw everything tied in.

Anyway, I liked van and his relationship with his brother and I did like van. . .alot. but i found hitomi rather annoying, constatly the damsel in distress and beckoning for aid from others and complaining about her mundane lifestyle and... well, i could go one and one.

The dragon armor, escaflowne was cool, and I liked the raw savagnss of the fight between the armours in the end. But there was just something that kept me from really likeing it. There was a good premise for a movie, but it was almost poorly executed. The writing for hitomi was absolutly horendous. Trust me, there are numerous accounts in which she repeated the same thing over and over, which i would understand if she was contradicting herself, but it was more of reasuring herself out loud about EVERYTHING. Consistantly annoying.

It was almost good, so i give it a 4 out of 5.But my sister would give it much, much less.