The Big Trail finally gets the treatment that fans should have had for the last twenty years.  What makes this movie stand out before you get into any other aspect of what is a remarkable film, is the technical aspects to it.  It was among the first wide screen films ever made.  That is kinda true, but does not give a full description of what the film is, and what it meant at the time it was released.  The 70mm Grandeur version of the film, of which there were five that were filmed simutaneously, used a screen aspect ratio of 2.1:1, but unlike cinescope and other "widecreen" devices in the erly day of film, which would not come around until the 1960's, would only use a kind of lense to widen the shot.  The process of film used on this picture would not fully be immitated again until the late 60's.  Remember this film came out in 1930.  There were several reviews posted here that this is not the Grandeur version of the film, and that is not the case.  This is the most complete version of the film on the market.  It has been remastered from original negatives and lookes brilliant in High Def.  All of the modern film techniques in wide screen were exhibited here.  Not only did it invent the technology, but it fully culitvated the techniques associated with it.  The amount of resources that went into the film surpasses even a lord of the rings size endevour with seperate casts for different distribution markets, and enough people, wagons, and livestock to completely fill the enormous screen without matting, or cgi like modern films.  The visual flair of the film surpasses even the John Ford era Wayne films in capturing the rugged terain.  Past the visual thrills of the movie, I know a lot of people do not like older movies and find them slow and boring.  I will complain from a modern standpoint about some of the sound work, as the actors either can not be heard, or are speaking too loudly to be natural performances, however if interpreted in the period it was made, or as a play, the writing is amusing, and entertaining, if not simple throughout.  It is not as conservative as the post depression wayne films, and feels modern in most aspects.  Very interesting to see a culture and lanscape so well captured so long ago.  There are some politically incorrect moments that are unapologetically thrown in, but hopefully if you are wanting to watch this you are not too easily offended and are open minded and well educated.  The Native Americans were authentic and not looked down upon at all.  The overall word for this film is majestic, as a land that this country seems to have forgotten about, and it seems both sad and determined to succeed.  The movie would eventually flop due to the great depression, but John Wayne was definately the right choice.  This is easily one of his best films.  The extras include plenty of making of, and history of the project, and the 35mm version of the film, which is very interesting to compare the difference the technology of the film process made.  Even by today's standards, just a beautiful film.  If you are bored during this film, you are just brain dead from watching too much MTV CGI crap.