A common theme in Frank Capra's movies is that great institutions; great intentions and great words can only live or die through the deeds of great men.  In both this movie, and in the earlier "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington", great men are called upon to endure hardship and scorn in order to ensure that great institutions, intentions and words are given life.  In this, Gary Cooper's second film with Capra (the first being Mr. Deeds Goes to Town), he plays Long John Willoughby, a baseball playing vagrant, who is chosen to be a human mouthpiece (John Doe) for a newspaper undertaking a publicity stunt - that is, to show the human face of someone disgruntled with the isolation and greed of society.  The words, for which Willoughby is a mouthpiece, are fed to him by ambitious reporter Ann Mitchell (Barbara Stanwyck) who acquires them from a remarkable series of letters written by her late father.  The irony is that, despite being an itinerant, Willoughby has an extraordinary underlying decency and sense of higher purpose for society.  Willoughby's desire to change society for the better fuses with his oratory skills, and the wordsmithing of Ann Mitchell's father, to create a new being who is much greater than the sum of his parts - an enormous force for good - the being becomes the face of the John Doe Movement.  Recognizing the massive growth and potential power of the John Doe Movement, newspaper publisher D.B. Norton (Edward Arnold) seeks to use the movement to create a third political party to achieve his own ends.  When Willoughby refuses to "play ball" the full power of Norton's media empire is unleashed upon him - much as it was with Jefferson Smith in Mr. Smith Goes to Washington.  Ironically, one of Capra's favorite bad guys (Edward Arnold) plays the media mogul in both movies.

It's difficult to believe that this movie is seven decades old.  John Doe's May 1941 US release actually predates the September 1941 (original Australian) release of Citizen Kane but it covers similar issues - the unfettered power of the media.  What Citizen Kane doesn't cover is the need for great men to endure hardship and scorn to challenge unfettered and unjust power.  And, who better to play the humble and seemingly insignificant man who is called upon to achieve greatness than Gary Cooper who gives an exceptional performance as the vagrant baseballer (a good precursor to his subsequent role as Lou Gehrig in "Pride of the Yankees" some months later).  Walter Brennan plays his disgruntled vagrant sidekick, known only as "The Colonel".  Edward Arnold is superb as always as the quintessential bad guy publishing mogul.  Barbara Stanwyck is great as Ann Mitchell who transforms from being ambitious and unscrupulous to being a force for good.

Meet John Doe was remade in 1992 with Dustin Hoffman as "Hero" (aka "Accidental Hero") which is also a good movie but with nowhere near the impact of Meet John Doe.  The remake also lacks the depression era feel of Meet John Doe.

Those who watch Meet John Doe would also be interested in Mr. Smith Goes to Washington and Mr. Deeds Goes to Town.  Meet John Doe is an excellent movie, decades ahead of its time.  It generally plays second fiddle to Mr. Smith Goes to Washington but its message is just as compelling - and both movies are must-see.