I absolutely love this film!  I hate when people can not take a good movie a really give it the credit it deserves.  I have watch so many BS movies that have went to the big screen and made millions of dollars and they were horrible.  But think about it?  It's all about the marketing.  And this movie was and will be that little known GEM of a movie that has so many points of views in it that makes you think.  I really didn't get Spike Lee movies until I became a little more mature in how people truely are and how this world really works.  When your young and dumb you don't see it or face it as much.  But, like in this movie Spike puts in government corruption, sex, discrimination, sexism and a world wind of provoking thought.  When I first heard about the movie, I was not given any spoilers.  I was just told "You gotta see this movie".  And every since then, I have been hooked.  Plus, Terance Blanchard (music composer) never ever fails to put this movie right were it belongs in the sense of mood and feel.  Which only adds to the movie.  I could go on and on about the various different breakdowns of how good this movie was.  But I don't want to include any spoilers so I will keep it to myself.  But, for the most part this movie is so multi-dimensional that, whoever gave this movie less than 3 or 4 stars needs to see a doctor.  Because plain and simple, you just can't look at this movie as being one thing.  That's what Spike Lee has been doing in his movies and that's what he will continue to do.  Despite his hater critics and those people who loves being untrue to reality and themselves.  My only question for any dumb a** haters about this movie is?  What, you don't think that something like this has ever happened or couldn't happen?  Because damnit, it could and you never know, it probably already has.  We don't entirely know the way of this world and how demonic, perverse and vile we can be when we are faced with certain situations.  So, my final thought to you haters are.  Don't judge so quickly just to satisfy your flat 1 dimensiona minds.  GREAT JOB SPIKE LEE!!!