EAGLE EYE  is not a great movie but it is an entertaining one.  Granted, leaving reason at the door is a prerequisite to plugging into the plot, but the style of the film and the premise that in the midst of all of our government's supposedly first class intelligence agencies such amazing programs can be staged opens the window for some speculation. Credit writers John Glenn, Travis Wright, Hillary Seitz and Dan McDermott for pushing the button on current cellphone obsession tied to terrorism to an all time high. And with director D.J. Caruso at the helm the whole preposterous (but entertaining) tale comes vividly to life.

Jerry Shaw (Shia LaBeouf) is a free-living disappointment to his father and at the funeral of Jerry's twin brother Ethan the tables turn.  Somehow Jerry's little apartment is filled with guns and ammo and a mysterious female telephone voice on his cellphone warns him to escape the impending FBI entry.  Jerry is clueless as to the appearance of the weaponry and when taken into custody Agent Thomas Morgan (Billy Bob Thornton) accuses him of collusion with his probable terrorist twin brother, now deceased.  Jerry escapes but is 'followed' by the constant orders from his cellphone that lead to dangerous circumstances.  On the other side of the city a working mother Rachel (Michelle Monaghan) receives equally strange cellphone calls threatening to murder her child if he does not do the voice's bidding.  Obviously Jerry and Rachel are joined in this duo adventure and the manner in which they resolve the clues on the run closely pursued by Agent Morgan, Zoe Perez (Rosario Dawson) et al drives the story to its conclusion.

The movie is bogged down with far too many car chases and absurd crashes and disasters, but the idea of terrorism in a new guise is an interesting one.  But for all the tense mood of the movie, the audience is doused with a syrupy sentimental ending which all but negates the adrenalin flow the film had.  LaBeouf and Monaghan make an interesting coupling, given the little dialog they have to create fleshed out characters. Not a great movie, but not a bad movie for thriller fans.  Grady Harp, January 09