I enjoyed this movie despite my preconceived notions (OK- anyone who has read my movie reviews at this point has realized by now that my initial impressions are wrong- aren't they all?).  This is not the classic I, Robot story, and the only thing you'll recognize from the original are The Three Laws, but it is mostly a very good story.

Will Smith plays cynical, world weary Del Spooner with his "funny" hat, as opposed to his "serious actor" hat (seen in Six Degrees of Separation and Ali).  However, shades of the latter manage to seep into his latest character.  From the first scene (which includes a very clever use of Stevie Wonder's "Superstition"), it's obvious how haunted Smith is, and even knowing the premise, you immediately get the impression that it goes beyond "Man or Machine".  That's good writing, but it's also good acting.

Strip the story of it's ultra-futuristic veneer, and it's the classic story of man vs. the group.  We quickly (and nervously) come to believe that Spooner is the only one who sees the obvious.  Again, it's a credit to the writing and acting that we are surprised when we realize we are wrong.

As Spooner tries to solve the mysterious death of Dr. Lanning, the creator of the robots, his view of them is challenged by Sonny, the enigmatic (and possibly unstable) super robot who is verging on android because of his sophisticated emotional responses.  Sonny doesn't fit into the boxes Spooner has assigned to him, and he's intelligent enough to want to figure out why.

I like intelligent surprises, and this movie delivered- for the most part.  However, I could see what was foreshadowed by the dream and shower scene immediately, and as soon as I saw Hansel and Gretel, I understood what happened to Dr. Lanning.  While it's fun to guess correctly, it's a big disappointment to be surprised and not care.  I won't give much away when I say that I was surprised by who the villain was because I had zero investment in him/her/it.  That, sadly, is lousy writing (or at least a sign of too many cooks in the kitchen).

Overall, I would still say this was two hours well-spent.