This has been on my personal hi-def wishlist since HD was invented. Overall I'm very happy with the presentation, and relieved not to be disappointed after the long wait. I'll break my specific observations down by category:

Performance: In short, if you've even heard of Peter Gabriel, you don't need me telling you this is him at his peak. Not that I don't love the more recent work, and see the artistic merit, but he has the fire here, and it's blazing up strong. He assembled an amazing cast of musicians for these shows, and Paula Cole in particular is gorgeous and gives as good as she gets vocally all the way through playing against Gabriel (a true achievment for any singer). It just doesn't get better than this...

Video: A lot of work was apparently invested in cleaning and digitizing the original 16mm film. There is not a scratch or speck of dirt to be seen. Overall it looks great. There's a little image softness especially in longer shots, but it's largely due to the hazy auditorium environment as much as the small image size of the base film stock. A small amount of grain is noticable now and again but that's to be expected with the 16mm original. Colors are vibrant and beautifully saturated.

Audio: There are two audio tracks, an LPCM stereo track and a DTS-HD surround track. Neither is a bad choice for listening. The LPCM track is clean and smooth. The DTS-HD adds some very restrained ambience effects, but nothing that becomes distracting. Personally I slightly prefer the stereo track, but it's a close call.

Overall I consider this BD a bargain at the price, and am thrilled to finally have a superior version in my concert library.

Track listing:

Come Talk to Me
Steam
Across the River
Slow Marimbas
Shaking the Tree
Blood of Eden
San Jacinto
Kiss That Frog
Washing of the Water
Solsbury Hill
Digging in the Dirt
Sledgehammer
Secret World
Don't Give Up
In You Eyes

Bonus Tracks:
Red Rain
Steam (remixed "quiet" version paired with tour photo montage)
The Rhythm of the Heat (New Blood Live performance)

Special Features:
Behind the Scenes documentary
Time Lapse film of stage setup