There are two types of people, those who like Viva La Bam or those who hate it.  Basically if you're a fan of Bam like I am, you'll love these DVD's.  If you're not a fan of Bam, odds are you'll hate them.  Having said that, here is the summary of season one:

Episode 1 -- Phil's Hell Day/Bam's Skate Park

Bam and the gang do everything possible to make Phil's life a living hell.  This includes installing a fireman's pole in the house, ironing hamburgers on all of Phil's clothes, and filling his toothpaste with meat.  The grand finale occurs when Phil and April go away for the weekend and Bam turns the house into a min-skatepark/shantytown due to the rain.  Guest appearances by Tony Hawk and several other pro-skaters.

Episode 2 -- Don't Feed Phil

Hilarious episode where Phil has to go 24 hours without eating a single bit of food.  Bam places billboards and flyers all over town, and everyone unites to not feed Phil.  Disaster almost strikes when Don Vito orders an out of state pizza while Bam and the gang are at a Turbonegro concert.  Bam brings the concert back to his house and averts disaster.

Episode 3 -- Family Reunion

Bam and the gang decide to prepare for the family reunion.  Highlights include Bam installing a drawbridge and castle wall around the house.  Another highlight is the hilarious debut of "Compton Ass" Terry.  That dude cracks me up for some reason.  The show ends up with Mum Mum (Bams G-ma) freaking out and Bam receiving a citation from the township for having an elephant at the house without a permit.

Episode 4 -- Viva Las Vegas

Bam and the crew head to Vegas to celebrate Phil and Ape's wedding anniversary.  After a coinflip it is decided that Raab Himself must marry a Russian mail order bride.  While in Vegas Don Vito must do 4 things he regrets.  The 1st regret is getting the heartogram logo tattoed on the dent in his back.  Vito's second regret is losing all of his money during a game of blackjack at Binion's Horseshoe.  Vito's third regret is getting kicked out of said Casino after he loses all of his money.  Vito's 4th regret is getting his hair dyed blue.  The episode concludes with a full on Elvis double wedding and a party back in Ape and Phil's suite.

Episode 5 -- Paint Phil Blue and Other Stories

A mixture of pranks during Bam's "3 day weekend."  The show starts out with the guys digging a tunnel into Don Vito's bedroom while Dunn and Dico distract Vito at the local watering hole.  The mayhem continues when Dico steals Ape's PT Cruiser and takes it to "Exotic Customs" to make some, er, adjustments.  The episode continues with Bam painting his dad Phil and the entire kitchen blue.  Phil later comments that the kitchen is "decorative and designish."  The episode concludes with Phil and Don Vito fighting for dollar bills and other items inside a gigantic clear box.  Miscellaneous ingredients (aka flour, cornflakes, various insects) are inserted to spice things up.

Episode 6 -- A Very Margera Christmas

The Christmas special to end all Christmas specials.  Bam's goal is to cover the outside of the house with so many lights you can see it from space.  He also imports truckloads of fake snow for the yard.  In addition, a large portion of the main floor of the house is turned into an ice skating rink, complete with professional figure skaters and a game of hockey.

Episode 7 -- Ape's revenge

April finally turns the tables on Bam and strands him and his friends on a nasty small island near 3 mile island.  Bam has supplies flown in and they rough it for the night.  Later on Bam gets revenge on April by getting a news crew to convince her that their house had been blown up.

Episode 8 -- Scavenger Hunt

Bam and Crew embark on a massive scavenger hunt throughout Westchester.  Special guests the Bloodhound gang also compete in this scavenger hunt.  Things to do on the hunt include throwing a turkey through the car window, bowling a strike with cheesy shoes, getting kicked out of a gas station, etc.  The episode ends with Bam smashing his mom's old piano on one of the cars from the scavenger hunt.

Disc 2 - Bonus Features

Bonus features include:  deleted scenes, music videos (CKY, Dicamillo Sisters, Clutch and Turbonegro), the list from the scavenger hunt, questions and answers, a photo gallery, and trailers for upcoming MTV DVD releases.