I didn't know that this was the last movie for Marilyn and Gable.  It was interesting.  I'm not a huge fan of Marilyn Monroe's.  I think Marilyn was, incidentally, one of the sources of the problems in movies today where there is too much of a prominence placed on symbolism over substance.  Having said that, Marilyn did a pretty good job in this movie.  I saw more substance in this movie than all the others I've seen combined.  The scene in the desert, where she screams at the brutality of the misfits, was top notch.  In that scene, and a few others in the movie, she displayed some acting talent that is missing in most of today's top starlets.  She evoked a lot of power in some scenes without saying a word.  In other scenes, she over acted a little.

Gable played Gable throughout most of the movie, but the scene when he cried out to children was an odd scene for him to take part in.  It showed more weakness in the few minutes it occurred than I've seen in most of the few Gable movies I've seen.

Clift was good, but I've seen him better in other movies.  He tended to play the same character in many of his movies, and that character was in this movie too.  He may have been a good actor, but I never saw too much range from him.

The movie itself was uneven and inconsistent.  The lead to the arc was very interesting.  I can see why it was considered an off movie for it's era. It kind of lost itself in the arc, however, and I found myself wavering a little in the midst of the overdrawn characterization and setting.  There were interesting scenes, and I can see why some of the scenes were important, but they were a little too long.  Other scenes seemed irrelevant to me.  The close of the movie, from the point where they reach the desert on, was excellent.  All of the characters--even the Eli Wallach character--were rounded out here.  The close of the movie provided an explanation for why some of the scenes that I considered irrelevant were in fact relevant.  Overall, I considered this a really good movie.  It had problems sure, but I would definitely recommend it.