Okay, I won't repeat all the good things that everyone has said about this movie because that would be completely redundant. There are well over 100 reviews. But I do think that people have unjustly given this movie one or two stars. 
The first complaint I have read concerned the dialogue. For one thing, Ocean's Eleven was written in such a fashion so as to mirror older films from Hollywood's golden era. This was the style in which their scripts were written. Watch an old movie and you'll see that this is how they talked. The dialogue is very smooth and witty. You'll hear a lot of zingers being delivered. Just because people don't get some of the jokes doesn't mean that the script was stupid. It just means that the viewer has a different taste and/or needs to catch up on his or her movie history. There, I said it. Watch an old movie now or you have no right to even be reviewing this one.
Second, the plot is all a matter of taste. Some thought it was slow. They were planning a major heist for millions of dollars in a seemingly unpenetrable vault...of course the characters are going to take the time to plan out the whole thing right! They're not idiots! And I personally thought that it was interesting to see the ingenuity that went into the theft. I'm genuinely sorry that some people have such short attention spans that they can't get out of "give me lots of action" mode. If people want lots of explosions in casinos then they can rent 3000 Miles To Graceland. Of course, some people just don't like this movie because it's really not their cup of tea, which is fine. But just because someone doesn't like a movie doesn't make it bad. I hate Casper but I recognize that it really wasn't a bad movie.
People complained about the wierd style the movie was filmed in. Again, watch an old movie. The people who made this film obviously decided to add influence from the era from which the original story was generated. The result is a film that is modern in terms of technology and pop culture but classy and clever like older films.
And finally, I've heard many unfavorable comparisons with the original Ocean's Eleven. That is strictly a matter of taste. But also, I think that some people need to remember that just because it came first doesn't mean it was better. In fact, it isn't even considered a classic except among Rat Pack fans. It was ill-received in its day and isn't recognized as a good film even today. The only reason to watch it would be to see the Rat Pack because they have that enduring coolness factor.