Ok, this is not a product review. I merely want to help you decide which version to buy.

For the first time ever, I personally prefer a theatrical edition over an unrated director's cut, and I'll tell you why. The version shown in theaters was more fun, and made a lot more sense. Unlike typical director's cuts, this one doesn't just add cut footage and tweek some of the editing, it actually uses alternate takes, with alternate events and outcomes, that fundamentally change the story. Simply put, without giving spoilers, the director's cut is far more bleak, and makes the idea of a sequel fairly pointless (or at least insurmountable). In fact, the alternate takes, if one looks back on them, invalidate the entire reason for the story in the first place, making it all a redundant waste of time. Again, trying to avoid spoilers here, so let me just make up a silly analogy that will convey the idea. Imagine a convoluted story about trying to, say, poison a city's water supply, and in the director's cut version you discover afterwards that the bad guys just happened to have someone planted who, by happenstance, already works at the water plant and could have poisoned the water at any time over a lunch break. Seriously, it's that sort of stupid.

I absolutely loved Salt when I saw it. It's a fantastic, exuberant movie that could easily be the start of a really enjoyable franchise. The director's cut, however, I did not enjoy. It did not add anything of substance beyond a few fairly insignificant scenes that were extended by a minute or two, and the alternate takes were far less satisfying than the originals, and only made the movie depressing and, honestly, rather stupid (and I'm far more partial to clever, intelligent stories that make sense). I truly believe that if you decide to go for the director's cut you'll be robbing yourself of seeing the vastly more logical and exciting story that was presented in the theatrical version.

My recommendation: Go for the original, and avoid the director's cut. The latter is not an expanded product, it's an alternate story, and a bad one at that.

Update: I've now had the chance to see the third version of this film (yes, a third unique version!), which I was unaware of when I wrote the above commentary. It's the "extended" version, and appears to only be available on the Blu-Ray disc. First off, unlike the Director's Cut, the Extended edition is actually a very good story. Some sequences are moved around or changed a bit, but this time it works, and the stupid elements have been removed (only one thing I disliked was retained, but at least in this version it had meaning). It also has a completely different final chapter, and I mean that in a big way, as in the story literally goes in a totally different direction, with new dialogue and scenes in other locations, etc.

My original recommendation still holds, but I'd like to sum-up the three versions in this way:

Theatrical: Overall best of the lot. Riveting story, exciting plot, lots of surprises and twists, and left wide-open for a sequel. (Also note that the sequel, which is already planned, will resume this version's storyline.)

Director's Cut: Unsatisfying. The alternate material is more morose, and undermines the inherent logic of the plot. Ruins any real chance of sequel making any sense by turning it from Die Hard into David and Goliath (and David's got a broken arm and is near-sighted --and Goliath has a Death Star). Worth watching eventually for novelty's sake, but in my opinion not for entertainment value. Prime candidate for Rifftrax.

Extended Edition: Very enjoyable. Combines most of the best elements of the Theatrical and Director's Cut, then slaps on a completely different ending. The style and sentiment seemed to be trying to emulate the neatly packaged, tidy spy stories of the '60s and '70s. This version ties the story up in a nice, neat bow of the instantly recognizable "divine justice" tradition (and you won't care, because it's just darned cool). This version is standalone and finite, with no hint at a sequel (and a sequel to this version would somewhat go against Salt's apparent wishes, but that's really all I can say without spoiling it for you). Definitely watch this version if you can get ahold of the Blu-Ray.

Ok, that's enough outta me on this subject. I promise, I won't edit this again. :)