Let me just preface my review by saying that I have never given a 5 star review to a workout video and I own some that I like very much.  So four is a good review for me and to me a 5 star rating would mean the video was perfect (which none are).  Also I have done yoga on and off for many years so I don't exactly qualify as the absolute beginner this video is targeted for.

Into my review: I really like this video. I do the am yoga almost every morning and fnd rejuvinating and a nice way to wake.  I occasionally do the pm one, especially if I'm having trouble sleeping.  And I've thrown both together for a longer routine on the weekend.  All three have pleased me.

The instruction is very well done and easy to follow, I only had to look at the screen once in the whole workout the first time I was doing it to check that I was correct.  And she gives both the Hindu and english names for the poses which is good for beginners trying to learn.  She speaks just enough to be informative without being chatty, and her voice and the music are very soothing.  I think a beginner would have no trouble figuring out the poses.  Also, there's a lot of work attuning to your breath and explicitly changing the pose with inhale and exhale which I liked as a way to awaken your muscles.  And the poses flow very easily from one to the next with no awkward changes.

Things that bothered me.  The sun salutations in the am routine are extremely short.  It's just standing forward bend, plank, child's pose, downdog.  And then seperately she went through warrior I, II, and III.  I wish those had been incorporated into the sun salutation.  And that some more poses (side angle, triangle) had been included.  However, this is a beginner's DVD so I can see how the way she does it would be helpful.

Overall: I think this would be an exquisite DVD for someone just coming to yoga (that said I don't think anything can replace classes and this should perhaps be just a supplement).  This was great for me as I was looking just for a relaxing, easy yoga routine to start my day.  However, for someone who has done yoga for awhile it's not very challenging and not a whole lot of poses are included.