For those reading this review who haven't seen or God forbid haven't even heard of this disturbing masterpiece:  WHAT THE HECK ARE YA WAITING FOR?  True, it's not exactly the most uplifting and cheerful movie ever made, but  even if you see it just once in your whole life, you will remember it  always.
Basic plotline:  Rockstar Pink (semi-autobiographical embodiment  of Roger Waters, Pink Floyd's bassist, vocalist, and chief songwriter) has  had a rough childhood, a rocky marriage, a few too many pills, and few too  many gigs.  So, to cope, he sits in a hotel room in front of a TV showing  English WWII movies and slowly loses touch with reality through flashbacks,  paranoia, and nightmarishly surreal animation by Gerald Scarfe (these bits  are my favorites!).  There is very little dialogue, as the movie serves as  little more than a ninety-minute music video of the 1979 masterpiece album  of the same name.
The cool thing about the DVD (besides finally getting  to see the footage intended to accompany the song "Hey You" which  was deleted by Waters himself), is the audio commentary provided by Waters  and Scarfe, who actually (gasp!) TALK ABOUT THE MOVIE!  So many of the  DVD's I've seen with this feature simply let the director, or whoever's  talking, ramble on about politics or people they met while writing another  movie altogether while a scene that you would have loved to have some of  their insight to is playing...ARRRRGH!  Here, the rather witty duo  explain each scene's meaning, inception, and even trivia bits like trick  camera work.  There's a hilarious Mystery Science Theater 3000-ish bit of  goofing around on Waters' part during the "Is There Anybody Out  There?" sequence that was very surprising.  I expected these guys,  especially Waters, to be stuffy and dismal, considering the movie.
Secret  trick by the way:  the DVD has a LOT of interactive menus, and on all of  them, save for the into/main menu, if you push the "9" on your  remote, it will acitvate a different sort of sound byte.  Nothing real  exciting, but kind of amusing.
Other movies you might want to check out  that actually have pretty good commentaries on them:  Natural Born Killers  Direct. Cut (Oliver Stone shows you all kinds of stuff you might never have  noticed about the film).  Clerks (Kevin Smith and members of the cast,  including a very intoxicated Jason Mewes).  Detroit Rock City (One of the  commentary tracks is actually a series of interviews with KISS band  members).