Actor Edward G. Robinson evokes many images: biblical figure, esteemed business executive, erudite professor, and perennial gangster.  In Fritz Lang's multi-layered noir classic Scarlet Street, Robinson convincingly portrays a meek, gulible store cashier who becomes intangled in a spider woman's alluring plot of deception.  Lang's film is filled with sexual themes that pushed the limits of Hollywood's protectionist Production Code.  The film's 1945 release date marked an immoral counterpoint to post WWII conventionality and American conservatism. Joan Bennett sizzles as the manipulative prostitute Kitty March.  Kitty willingly accepts the mental and physical abuse of her pimp played brilliantly by noir stalwart Dan Duryea.  But Kitty is no desperate fall girl, she has rationalized her relationship with Johnny as one enveloped in romantic love. To Kitty her "marriage" to Johnny is one that works because all couples that are deeply in love fight.  The only elements missing in Kitty's blissful world are respectful occupations, extended families, a home, children, and shared intimacy.  Lang's dark film purposely omits any hints of normalcy. Instead Kitty and Johnny's world is one characterized by street hustles, grifting, and deception.  Their meal ticket mark is Chris Cross (Edward G. Robinson) who washes dishes in an apron for a wife that still adores her first, late husband. Chris has spent 25 unnoticed years as a store cashier and only truely enjoys life when he paints on Sunday afternoons. That is until Chris meets Kitty.  Other reviewers have commented on the storyline, but a few scenes in this noir film are golden moments of the genre. When Kitty finally bursts Chris's naive bubble by shouting: " I've been wanting to laugh in your face ever since I met you. You're old and ugly and I'm sick of you!" murder becomes the only way for Chris to retain his manhood.  Chris has gotten away with murder not once, but twice. The innocent Johnny is sent to the electric chair for Kitty's murder and thus both of Chris's tormentors are gone.  Or are they really? Director Lang has weaved a complex picture that reveals many human weaknesses, vices, and temptations: embezzelment, infidelity, suicide, blackmail, prostitution, murder, injustice, and love are all present on this dark city canvass. This one is a must see and keeper for all noir enthusiasts.