I only saw this once, in a theater at a University, after waiting weeks in which documentaries were scheduled but I failed to find anything else I would go out in the cold to see.  I already own a CD of `high, low, and in between' which includes the songs of `The Late, Great Townes Van Zandt.'  I was expecting `Poncho and Lefty' and 'If I Needed You' to show up in this film.  Those songs were the high point of his life, familiar to people who still have not heard of him.  A song with cards made sense in this film because I had heard it before, but Townes Van Zandt was not one to make too much sense, and this film follows his footsteps pretty closely.

This documentary does not dwell on the treatments Townes Van Zandt received as a mental patient.  A doctor was able to keep him from enlisting in the military, but his wife was astounded at getting such a candid assessment for someone who was able to make enough money to buy food to eat by playing in a club on Friday nights.  Sometimes it seems the insulin shock treatments were successful in wiping out the memory of his life up to that point, but when he was recorded as saying that he remembered the feeling of falling four stories to land flat on his back, and how it felt, was that recorded before he was treated for being suicidal or afterward?  Kris Kristofferson is one person in this film who emphatically says that living on the road is precisely as Townes Van Zandt described it in the song `Poncho and Lefty.'  Kris has had breath as hard as kerosene.  The gruesome details relate to dying on New Year's Day, 1997, at the age of 52, shortly after having an operation to fix a broken hip that broke eight days before he went to the hospital.  My sympathy was strongest when he was trying to identify a goal for himself; he hoped he could write a song that no one would understand.  He was more interested in songs than in life as a normal person, but he had wives and kids more than once.  If you know his songs well, his failure to sing more than a line or two when he had an audience is not quite as bad as if you went to a performance and could not tell when he was singing or what he was saying and only thought you better not waste any time trying to listen because he might be a genius, and you'd just feel stupid trying to figure it out.