*** This has been updated and the recommended viewing order list changed. Take a look***

So I just received today the SPACE 1999 Blu-Ray Season One Set!

Does it live up to expectations? A few episodes in and I have to say... HOLY HECK does it ever!

And you really should spring for the Blu-Ray! And this comes from someone who is still not a Blu-Ray convert. I prefer the DVD form-factor, it's more aesthetically pleasing to me than the cheap dinky Blu-ray Boxes. And often there is a negligible difference in quality, particularly when the source has issues, or the studio just cuts corners.

In short, all things being equal, I'm not paying more for Blu-ray. However in the cases where there is a substantive improvement in quality, and great special features, and the price is competitive with DVD pricing... well then I'll pull the trigger.

Case in point SPACE 1999: SEASON ONE on Blu-ray. Wow! I saw this show when it originally aired, it never looked anywhere close to this good. It's staggeringly good looking and packed with commentaries and extras. It's going to be in the running for one of the best DVDs of the year.

But others can sing the praise of the show and the Blu-ray, I wanted to comment in regards to viewing order.

The order these episodes are on the Blu-ray set (and DVD) is production order, which is completely how they came out. However, it doesn't work.

I'll say again... viewing it as laid out, doesn't work.

I hit episode two, and I was like.... "what the eff, did I miss something?!". Because even though these shows are supposed to be more or less standalone, some scripts/stories juxtapose badly with other episodes, in the order they are on the disk.

I did a bit of searching, and watching, and studying other lists, and have finally come up with this, I think, rock-solid viewing order list. It stays pretty close to the production order except in cases where those changes substantially help to clarify the story or character development.

So without further ado, the viewing order that the show works best in.

I call this the HT Space 1999 recommended Episode Viewing Order List (or HT Space 1999 REVOL for short :)):

1. Breakaway
2. Earthbound
3. Black Sun
4. Missing Link
5. Voyager's Return
The first five follow the Kearley Episode list. Without doubt that gives a great opening to the series.
6. Ring around the Moon
7. Matter of Life and Death
Six and Seven is where I break with the Kearley List. This forms a loose 2 parter. With the possession of the Doctor in RING perhaps following her subconsciously into MATTER and perhaps helps address some of the inexplicable events that happen there.

8. Guardian of Piri
9. Force of Life
10. Alpha Child
11. The Last Sunset
12. Collision Course
13. Death's other Dominion
14. The Full Circle
15. End of Eternity

These eight episodes GUARDIAN to THE END OF ETERNITY (with the exception of moving one episode earlier in the season for story development reasons) follow production order, as I saw no substantial reason to move them around. And having watched them both ways they work best this way, adhering closer to production order.

16. The Last Enemy
17. War Games

I swap the order of THE LAST ENEMY and WAR GAMES, because in WAR GAMES it kinda heals the damage done to them in THE LAST ENEMY, and helps them get out of the habit of... preemptive strikes and finding enemies wherever they look.

18. Another Time, Another Place- Agreeing with Kearley's desire to have this closer to the end of the first season, I thought this was the ideal place for this episode. The largely space based and battle heavy WAR GAMES being a nice lead in for the far more metaphysical ANOTHER TIME, ANOTHER PLACE. And I think after the loss in ANOTHER TIME, the opening of TROUBLED SPIRIT is a great way to cleanse the palette and show a healing moment for the crew of Alpha after several shattering episodes.

19. The Troubled Spirit
20. Space Brain
21. The Infernal Machine
22. Mission of the Darians
23. Dragon's Domain
24. The Testament of Arkadia

And the final six episodes follow production order exactly and are a strong powerful wrap up for the first, best, and some would say ONLY true season of SPACE 1999.

Well this has been a lot of fun, a little work, putting this HT Space 1999 Recommended Episode Order Viewing List (REVOL) together. Hope it will be of help and use to some of you. Thanks!

Go here for full details:

heroictimes dot wordpress dot com

Hopefully some of you will find this as helpful as I did! Thanks!