Director Fritz Lang makes "Scarlet Street" into a full-blown film noir in this 1945 adaptation of the French play "La Chienne", based on the novel by Georges de la Fouchardi&egrave;re. French director Jean Renoir made an earlier cinematic adaptation in 1931 that incorporated his signature social criticism. Lang's film is about individual personalities, how and why they interact, and to what consequence.

Christopher Cross (Edward G. Robinson) dreamed of being a great painter when he was a young man, but ended up being a cashier, profoundly lonely, and stuck in a loveless marriage to an insufferable wife. Painting still makes Chris happy, though, and he paints every Sunday to please himself. One evening he helps a young woman on the street and accompanies her to a nearby bar. Kitty (Joan Bennett) claims that she is an actress and feigns interest in Chris' artwork, and he is flattered by her attentions. Kitty's boyfriend Johnny (Dan Duryea), a slick con artist who will do anything to avoid work, suggests that she continue to flatter Chris and milk him for money. Chris rents Kitty an apartment where he can paint and be with her. And Johnny and Kitty sell some of his paintings, passing them off as Kitty's work. Oddly, Chris doesn't mind...until he discovers the true nature of Kitty and Johnny's relationship.

"Scarlet Street" owes its success to the performances of Edward G. Robinson and Joan Bennett, as well as Fritz Lang's choice not to speak too well of anyone. Chris's plight is sympathetic. He's a talented man who has spent all of his life in a  monotonous job and his recent years being demeaned by a shrill wife. But at the same time, "Scarlet Street" mocks Chris for being so gullible and desperate that he falls for Kitty's barely disguised  seduction and her completely undisguised greed. Joan Bennett's trashy, sassy turn as Kitty is authentic and memorable. Kitty and Johnny are a couple of inherently lazy slobs in sharp contrast to Chris' diligence and refinement. As in all film noirs, everyone ultimately falls victim to his own flaws. "Scarlet Street" is a solid film noir with memorable characterizations from one of cinema's great directors.

My 5-star rating is for the movie, not the DVD. "Scarlet Street" is available on 2 DVDs as of this writing: A Gotham disc (2002) and as part of Questar's "5 Film Noir Killer Classics" 6-disc set (2004). Neither is a restored print of the film, but the discs are inexpensive. If you really need a quality transfer, wait until someone decides to restore this film.