In October 1988, I had the extreme pleasure of twice visiting the Pet Semetary set. The first took me to Mount Hope Cemetery in Bangor, Maine--where they were filming the scene involving Louis Creed (Dale Midkiff) as he's about to dig up his son, Gage. Besides Midkiff, who was charming, I also got to meet "Pascow," who was made up exactly as he appears in the film--complete with oozing brain. The second visit was in Ellsworth, Maine. There, I got to watch interiors being shot of the Creed household and a scene that was cut from the film (involving Louis and Rachel arguing about their earlier visit to the pet sematary and Ellie's new fascination with death). My experiences ended up in Fangoria magazine and its sister publication (since deceased) Gorezone. The film itself is flawed, I think. While director Mary Lambert displays an interestingcinematic style, there were many things that detracted from the horror. One was the absolutely atrocious performance of the little girl who played Louis' daughter. Not only did she not look like either parent (who were both extremely handsome people), she's called upon to be "dramatic," and that definitely is a bad move. Witness the scene where she wakes from a nightmare to tell her mother that someone named "Paxcow" is telling her that "daddy's in trouble." The demands of the scene are obviously beyond her.  I also disliked much of the script, and for that, we can blame Mr. King himself. It was full of typical "Maine-isms" that ring true only to people who know nothing about Maine. I've lived here all my life and never once met anyone who talks like the Fred Gwynne character!  And here's an interesting tidbit: the concluding scene of Pet Sematary was reshot after test audiences didn't like what they saw.  In the original ending, Louis is waiting for Rachel to return from the dead.  We see him sitting on the floor, and she enters (we only see her feet). He looks up, smiles, and then the phone rings. Rachel answers, and it's Ellie. Rachel says "it's all right, Ellie.  Mommy's home," then she turns to the camera, and we see that half her face has been hacked off.  End of movie. In the reshot ending, Rachel enters, and the alarm clock goes off (which was, in the original, the ringing of the phone). She and Louis embrace, and all kinds of goop pours from her ravaged her face. Then, inexplicably, she kills Louis.  Given what's transpired throughout the movie, this ending makes absolutely no sense--but the filmmakers wanted a jolt, so they reshot it for more graphic effects.

Do I recommend Pet Sematary? Of course! It's an interesting example of late 80's King horror. It's no Carrie or The Shining, but it has all the requisite King elements: male protagonist, a supporting female who really doesn't understand her man, and other-worldly forces who are zeroing in on said male. Toss in a demonic cat, plenty of red herrings, and a big fire, and you have something that goes down smooth--even if it does leave you hungering for more.