I have always been an avid fan of Westerns in general, and Charlton Heston in particular, but this is one of those movies where the legend surrounding it far exceeds the actual viewing, even allowing for its having been butchered by the studios

Charlton Heston of course, plays Major Dundee, a man with a very forceful character - resolute, determined, and even rebellious ("invading" Mexico and attacking the French army).  For such a man to later be found as a hopeless drunk wallowing in the gutters of Durango is thoroughly incomprehensible.

The purpose of the "invasion" of Mexico is to capture or destroy the Apache Indian, Charriba, so one would expect the audience to watch the movie in anticipation of a great climax when the two sides finally meet.  When they do meet however, the action is over in less than a minute, and Charriba is simply shot by Michael Anderson Jnr.  So the climax is, in my view, an anti-climax.

We are then presented with a new climax, when Dundee and his men have to defeat the French army in order to get back across the Rio Grande.  Although this encounter is a lot more exciting than the one with the Apaches, the overall effect, as far as I am concerned, is rather like the effect one gets when reading a murder mystery to discover that the murderer is somebody who only entered in the final pages (and the scene where a wounded Richard Harris single-handedly takes on the other half of the French army is so unexpected in view of what has gone on before, as to be virtually unbelieveable).

With regard to the movie having been heavily cut by the studios, I would suggest that if any cuts had to be made, they should have cut the Durango scenes entirely, plus all of the scenes featuring Senta Berger.  Romance only slows down the action and adds nothing to the story, whilst too much romance leads to boredom.

Finally, having watched the movie with the new score first, and then with the original score, I have to say that I preferred the original.

The movie opens with Charriba saying to an upside down strung-up soldier, "Who are you going to send after me now?"  The original then has the opening title, "Major Dundee," accompanied by the Mitch Miller Sing Along Gang singing the Major Dundee March.  To me this is a much more stirring and rousing score than the new replacement, and sets the scene for what one hopes will be an exciting movie.

By all means buy this dvd as a piece of movie history, and as part of either a Charlton Heston or Sam Peckinpah collection (even though Peckinpah disowned it), but for my money don't expect a Western anything like as great as the likes of The Big Country, The Magnificent Seven, or How The West Was Won.