Nashville is one of the most interesting, intelligent and compelling movies to ever come out of Hollywood. Featuring bravura performances from each of the 24 main characters, it is a brilliant examination of American society, politics, religion, showbusiness and culture. This 157 minute film tackles all of these issues at a steady pace (the director's control is absolutely superb), leading up to a shattering denouement. Despite being made in 1976, Nashville still packs a hell of a punch - its themes are still relevant today.
  The eponymous setting of the movie is synonymous with politics. From the start of the movie, a campaign wagon for a presidential candidate drives all over the town spewing political slogans and ideals to the residents: this wagon links all of the characters together. As Robert Altman follows it, he focuses on all of Nashville's protagonists using brief vignettes that each tell a short story of their own - gradually, all of these characters intertwine and eventually, converge on the eve of a political rally. 
  Each of these vignettes are so concise, so telling in their exposition of the character, that the viewer almost immediately fathoms an understanding of what each protagonist is like. Who to fear; who to admire; who to respect; who to pity. Altman peppers the movie with over one hour of music - after all, Nashville is the home of country/western. The lyrics ring true with certain characters and elicit emotional responses from the viewer. "We [Americans] must be doing something right to last two hundred years," sings one character at the start of the movie - later on, scenes that show a woman forced to strip, as well as a shooting, deliver a sharp ring of irony to the lyric. 
  All of the performances in the movie are brilliant, the most notable of which is Lily Tomlin. She is especially good as the mother of two deaf children, all the while struggling with her marriage. Her husband makes no effort to translate his deaf son's story of swimming lessons: "what's he sayin'?" he asks. Her sorrow translates beautifully to the screen with the help of Nashville's score. Each actor conveys their character's emotions to the viewer with relative ease, which consequently heightens understanding and compels the viewer to watch on with interest. Because the viewer can connect with each of the characters, the finale is that much more heartbreaking.  Ultimately, Nashville is a brilliant character study of epic scope and proportions. The technical brilliance behind the movie in conjunction with the excellent performances culminates to create one of the most rewarding and intelligent movies in motion picture history. Nashville leaves the viewer with one clear impression: each of us, whether we like it or not, are part of a society that is both good and bad - behind all the politics, the foul play and the heartbreak, we can still manage to carve out an existence of sorts, and ultimately be happy.