127 hours is a greuling one on one face off with the overbearing willingness to survive at its most extreme. While this isn't the first film to depict the extremes humans are willing to go thought to survive, it is to date one of my current favorites.

I have a new found respect and admiration for James Franco.I once believed he was just another actor out there relying on "his looks" and going for the easy,"BIG MONEY" Hollywood rolls, but 127 Hours has swayed me the other way. Not only does it prove that he is serious about acting, but that he is a versitile actor able to take on serious dramatic rolls as well as action and comedy.I hope that in the nearing future he is able to expand more and get some great parts in future films

Anyway, enough "groveling" and down to business. If you aren't familiar with 127 Hours,I'll break it down for you as breifly and to the point as possible. As stated, it is essentially a "survial" film, but much more than that..you get to experience the days as they  tick by the hour,minute and second of one man's experience and near impossible decision. Aron Ralston is an experienced climber, and on his weekend away at the Canyon Lands National Park, he finds himself between a rock and a hard place...litterally.

As hard as he tries, there is no way he can remove or lift a half ton boulder pining his hand at the bottm of a crevice. Faced with dehydration and no possibility of being found, Arron comes to terms with himself and his awkward position.

He finaly does what most of us probably wouldn't do, and that's amputating his own arm to free himself with a very small,dull knife that has been widdled down next to nothing from daily chipping at the rock. It isn't as gorey as you might envision(I've seen allot worse up close and personal and in other films),but you do really get to see how excruciating it is.

I surprisingly liked this film, and it just wasn't the story.The story itelf at first glance isn't that captivating, but James Franco's performance is. Not many actors  can hold your attention in such a role where they are more or less the center of attention throughout the entire film and Franco does so surprisingly well. He does so effortlessly and at one point in the film, with humor. As horrible as his situation was, I was laughing and giggling uncontrollably because it was done in such a real way.Well worth watching and owning, 127 hours  keeps you front and center  from the time it begins.