I originally watched this movie in high school.  Despite having been told about most of the best scenes in advance by my friends, it was still a lot of fun.  Of course, a lot of other people thought so too, as it spawned a nostalgia craze for the 50s and early 60s resulting in many (too many?) seasons of "Happy Days," among others.

A few years ago, I saw the movie again on TV.  I realized that, even though I was much more mature (at least physically), this movie still seemed very very good.

I recently got the DVD and watched it properly and I have to say that, after careful scrutiny, this really is one of the finest films ever made.  I won't retell a story that's much better told by the movie, but: it has a lot of laughs, but it's not entirely a comedy (especially the ending); it has plenty of music, but it's not a musical; it has plenty of action, but no blood and gore; it seems incredibly realistic, but there is never a dull moment; there are multiple storylines and an ensemble cast, but it never gets confusing.

Every aspect of this movie is impressive, but I'm particularly struck by the genius of George Lucas and associates when it comes to casting.  Every actor in this movie seems perfect for the role they play.  If you look hard you'll see quite a few familiar faces getting their start (including Suzanne Somers very briefly as the girl in the Thunderbird).  Many, particularly Harrison Ford & Richard Dreyfuss, went on to long, successful careers.  Although they were all great in this film, I thought that Candy Clark was a standout.

If you get this collector's edition of the DVD you'll also be able to see an in-depth "extra" on the story behind the making of the film - very interesting.  It's inspiring to see that somebody as currently renowned as Lucas had to be incredibly patient and persistent (and put up with a lot of incredible Hollywood idiots) in his early days before his idea was finally realized.  His success in making this movie under such tough circumstances makes the end product even more impressive.  It's also very impressive to me that George Lucas went from writing/directing/creating a movie like "THX 1138" to this and then to "Star Wars" - all three very good and VERY different films.  I don't know of anyone else who has accomplished anything quite like that.

Although I'm now quickly approaching middle age, I wasn't really old enough to be a part of the era depicted in the movie, so this isn't a nostalgia trip for me.  The music isn't my music - I'm more of a post-British Invasion fan.  But the fact that a movie can make you relate deeply to characters from a realistic time and place you've never been says something significant.  Also, the fact that it I've now enjoyed it on several different levels and at widely varying ages says even more...

Simply one of the greatest movies ever made.