Two oil companies working in the muddle east merge and they assign and attorney from the law firm that represents them (there is some indication that the law firm may have an actual financial interest in the oil companies)  to find out why they failed to get a specific contract that went to the Chinese.

\So we have legal eagles  and oil power brokers breaking the law and they assign a lawyer from their own firm to investigate the contract with the Chinese and why their undue influence did not work.  They are so powerful they can didctate to the CIA and to the King of (call it Syriana) who shuld be the next Amir and it wont be the liberal # 1 son but the weak # 2 son.

Agent BOB is assigned by the CIA to kill number 1 son so the path is clear for # 2. He goes to Lebanon to get permissin from the AlKaydda (spelling) to operate in Lebanon. They agree but the man they use as a connection for Bob turns on agent Bob until the leader of the AlKaydda intervenes. After all, he gave Bob his word.

Bob now suspects that something is up. He finds out that the # 1 man in the law firm is dircting all of this including him so he goes to this man and makes sure that the # 1 lawyer knows that if he Bob is not freed up from this investigation, he will kill the lawyers family.

Bob now freed up and passport worthy, goes back to Lebanon and attempts to interfer with a direct CIA missle attack on # 1 son as he and his group of generals move to take over the country.  Bob is successful in stopping the caravan and while standing next to the young prince's Rover, the missle hits and blows him and the prince and his wife to bits.So much for America's promotion of democratic liberal Amirs who want to do right by their country and institute progressive ideas like voting and freedom for women.

In the mean time, two young Pakistani youths are turned into human bombs with a weapon that it just so happened that BOB sold to some bad guys early in the movie and they ram this weapon into the oil company to make a point they know nothing about and become martyrs.

Conclusion: to get the oil merger approved, the oil company and the law firm have to give up sacrifical lambs to the slaughter for violations of the law and in the end, the major oil and legal pwer brokers sacrifice BOB, one of their own and....some third party guy who works for the freedom of Iran from the tyranny of the Ayatollah, to get the merger and oil fields they want, all in the name of cheaper gas prices.Matt Damon? after his client was blown up, he decides it might just be in his best interest to go home to America and his wife and remaining kid and live on his $175 million. AFter all, had he not chaged seat with the Prince's wife, he would be dead along with the Prince.

Conclusion: America, the oil company, the law firm and the American people got exactly what they wanted, Syriana a muddle east country puppet they can control.