_Get Carter_ is a convoluted revenge drama, in which London mobster Jack Carter (Michael Caine) travels from London to the ganglands of Britain's industrial north, to find out Who Killed His Brother.  And then kill them, which he does with some psychopathic flair.  
But what really makes this film remembered, apart from another Michael Caine performance in his best 1970s vein, half ruthlessly competent enforcer, half insolent chancer, is its style.  The London of this gritty film was never "swinging", and the north is a mysterious wasteland where grim iron fields of mysterious, rusting machinery lurk just behind every genteel workingclass street.  
And this is a film where dressing the characters was nearly as important as giving them lines to say.  Caine and the senior mobsters get about in sharp tight men's suits, shirts with long lapels and long tipped collars.  Even the Northern gang enforcers are dandies, improbably stalking the streets in knee-length tan greatcoats: and, dated or not, those really were great coats. 
Women wear white high heels, miniskirts, floral blouses and Big Hair.  Though a surprising proportion of the female cast take their clothes off so that the puzzlingly irresistible Michael Caine can smudge their lipstick.  One of them is Britt Ekland (...).  On the other hand there's Michael Caine stepping out onto a genteel suburban street wearing nothing but a shotgun, confronting, in order of appearance, his landlady's prim and censorious neighbour, and an entire team of Marching Girls.  
Marching Girls?  Marching girls are one of the great British wierdnesses, like competitive ballroom dancing.  Think cheerleaders aged between six and about 15, except that instead of chanting and jumping around like their American sisters, they do parade ground drill routines, in solemn silence.  I have no idea why, but then I don't even understand cheerleading.  Why don't these girls play their own sports?  But ours not to reason why; their confrontation with a naked Michael Caine and his, um, shotgun is a fine sight gag, and nicely set up.  It probably couldn't be done today, though it's an entirely non-sexual, funny, scene.
Still on the topic of nudity, Michael Caine's body, plumpish by current male hero standards but no doubt perfectly acceptable in 1970, reminds us of how grotesquely over-pumped the male bodies are in current action movies.  The 1970 women also have real bodies, their flesh undistorted either by starvation or silicone, and looking much the better for it.  Hmmm&#8230; This review seems to have been channelled by the undead spirit of Benny Hill, so far.  I'll see if I can talk about something other than film nudity.  
Like stylish cars.  _Get Carter_ reminds you that in 1970 the British still had a motor industry, that built cars that were too solid and reliable for their own profitability, and beautiful Art Deco objects some of their products were too.  But what else do you need in a film?  The men are hard and the women are harder, the plot is tough, the script is excellent and full of telling and intriguing character details, while every acting performance, including Ekland's, is dead on target.  
I won't give the plot away beyond observing that it turns out to be extremely Grim Up North.  Actually the story is pretty much a Chandler plot transplanted across the Atlantic: a point underlined by the book Carter reads on the train as he heads north: _Farewell My Lovely_.  Except that there's no Philip Marlowe in this film; on these mean streets there are no heroes, not even tarnished ones.  
_Get Carter_ is a trendsetting film, though many of its most worthy imitators were only made 30 years later, for example _Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels_ and the other recent British gangland flicks.  The recent re-make starring Sylvester Stallone, on the other hand, isn't one of the worthy imitators.  It's a turkey, a flabby clich&eacute; executed without pace or style.  The Michael Caine original, on the other hand, is sharp as a razor.  
Recommended.  (...)
Cheers!
Laon