What are you looking for in a DVD about the siege of Rochester that took place in 1215, after some of King John's barons rebelled against him? A historically accurate story? Good actors who perform in ways that make their characters look realistic? A lot of savage but realistic fighting? All three or none of the above? Depending on your answers to these questions (and perhaps a few others), you will either love or hate this film, or anything in between.

First, does it accuratly tell the story of the siege of Rochester during which John and his army mostly made up of mercenaries besieged a handful of rebels for several weeks? The answer to this one is both yes and no. The rebels were indeed commanded by Baron William d'Albani, one of the feudal lords that had signed Magna Carta, but there were a couple of hundred of them and many knights among them, as opposed to the handful shown in the film. The presence of a Templar Knight is a pure invention as is having the Templars siding with the rebels against King John. In all likelihood, and since the Knights Templars answered to the Pope, who happened to take King John's side after a piece of skillful diplomacy from the King (who was as useless as he generally is made to be), they are very unlikely to have sided with the rebels. In fact, one of the only Templars mentioned in the sources is one Brother Roger who was used by John to distribute money to the King's mercenaries as and when they landed on the South coast of England to reinforce his army. A related point, concerning John forces, is that these were mostly made up of mercenaries who came from just about everywhere from France (there were Bretons, Gascon crossbowmen, Poitevins and Flemish, among others) but certainly not from Scandinavia or the Isles (whether the Orkneys or the Hebrides), as the film seems to imply, and, of course, they were not commanded by one "Tiberius" - a character that is just as fictional as that of the main hero in the film (the Templar Knight). In fact the whole film is a mix of historically correct pieces and others that are not at all historical. The undermining of the walls and of one of the towers is mostly accurate (except for the 40 pigs whose fat was used to set of the mine and which were not burned alive) did happen and King John did have the castle relentlessly bombarded by 5 siege machines for weeks. Some of our hero's equipment is rather anachronistic, such as his two-handed sword which did not come into use before another century or so, or the type of helmet (heaume) that he wears in the film some 50 years to early. Finally, the real story ended in a rather less dramatic way: the defenders finally surrendered and King John, after having had had a couple of them mutilated and executed (but none of them were knights) had the rest of them emprisoned in his various castles and held for ransom, including William d'Albani.

Now many potential customers either do not care too much about historical accuracy, meaning they might not care a rat's behind about it, in more straighforward terms, or at least they do not object when such a film is somewhat inaccurate, as long as the actors are good, the story holds together and it is action-packed with masses of fighting. Regarding actors' performances, I am afraid the film is a bit of a mixed bag, to put it nicely. Some actors, such as Paul Giamatti playing King John tend to make their character look somewhat ridiculous. Even our blue-eyed Templar, who will, of course, go off into the sunset after having renounced his Order with the conveniently widowed landlady, is a bit of a caricature and the normally excellent Derek Jacobi is a shadow of his usual self in this film. So, definitly not a film that would be on the short list for the Oscar of Best Actor.

What is left is a series of savage fights where the Director has - at times - gone rather overboard and attempted to make the story as gory as possible. So, expect masses of limbs being chopped of more or less unrealistically, and a tongue being cut out from an old priest towards the beginning of the film. There is even a case where one of the defenders during the siege picks up a cut off limb and uses it as a club against the besiegers. At this point, I confess I could not stop laughing.

However, even as a caricature, I still somehow managed to find the film entertaining and I have even seen it a couple of times since I bought it a while ago. Nothing to really write home about, perhaps, but still entertaining and enjoyable. Because of that, it is worth three stars for me.