I don't write many reviews, and only a few are negative.  But I feel compelled to spill my guts on this "movie". In one word, "AWFUL!".

My wife wanted to see Russell Crowe (what's he got that I don't?). Crowe's performance was excellent even though the movie sucked. (He's done some great movies and some terrible ones such as this, but his acting is consistently very good.)

At first I thought "..the Dead" was a satire or parody.  Unfortunately it was neither. It was contrived and not believeable (not a fantasy either).  The acting was terrible except for Crowe and to a lesser extent for Hackman.  The story had no substance, and the drama and suspense were as deep as Jacques Cousteau diving in a wading pool.

Sharon Stone was terrible. (Did she finance this film? It's the only explanation I can think of.)

Even the costuming was comical.  In this dirty, dusty, (and muddy) town some of the attire looked like it came straight off the rack from Saks.  How Sharon got so many clothes on the back of her horse is beyond me!

A leading actor or actress should have at least some quality going for her such as being attractive, strong, sympathetic, mean, intelligent, witty, sexy, ugly, weak, stupid, intriging, something, anything!; Sharon Stone had none in this movie.  Off the top of my head, Sigourney Weaver, a young Sophia Loren or Marilyn Monroe, or even Rosie O'Donnell or Hillary Clinton would be better personalities for the Sharon character.

Hackman was good, but every time he spoke I couldn't help but think of the villian and comical character Lex Luther (from Superman).  The dialogue was very similar.  His character was  contrived and shallow.

DiCaprio was ok given his part, but what's a prissy, GQ, preppy sort of guy, with a perfect complexion doing being the son of of the bad guy in a dirty little town where the average person bathes maybe once a year? And yet despite their relationship, there was no chemistry and little dialogue between them.  Casting DiCaprio in this part is like casting Michael Jackson to play Kobe Byrant in a non-comedy.

I could go on and on, but I'll conclude with two other comments.  The scenes look like they're done on a set, and just one set at that.  And if there are any "special effects", I must have missed them - except for Hackman doing a backflip!

Oh My, What a Terrible Movie!