With the title, Kurosawa has blurred the distinction between "dreams" and "nightmares" in this ensemble.  In fact, majority of what Kurosawa explores here are nightmares than dreams: the aftermath of nuclear explosions (twice), aftermath of a war, deforestation, and the likes.  Some "dreams" have explicit messages (Nuclear Aftermaths, The Village of Watermills,) some have implicit messages or just good as first rate narratives (Sun under the rain, the Van Gogh dream - excellent use of CGI in the latter).  Excellent cinematography.

What is consistently noticeable in all the narrations here is how quickly Kurosawa sets up the background and gets to the main theme, and how natural those backdrops are to the story!  A violently barking dog, at the entrance of a dark tunnel and the General walking into it is the backdrop for the "Tunnel".  In about five/seven minutes, this impeccable set up done, and Kurosawa rolls on with the episode.  It is left to your imagination whether the dog went and got the dead solider who does not seem to believe he is dead, or that the soldier appeared on his own.  Then the entire battalion of dead soldiers the General had ordered to the battle, all needing to be convinced that they are dead, arrive at the scene!  When the General convinces them all that they are dead, and as the sound of their boots marching backwards fades into silence, you are left wondering whether the General actually saluted them or was he really apologizing to them for the stupidity of the war, the responsibility he bore for their death.

The dog appears barking at the General again - perhaps the soldiers, as it is their Tannysonean duty to not question the General, did not dispute the consequence of his order, but the dog has no such obligations and is judging the General without prejudice!?

This is yet another nightmare that Kurosawa calls a "dream"! This is one of the best in the collection.

On the downside, at places - though very few such instances abound - Kurosawa seems to lose control of the narration.  For example, in the Watermills dream, the vocal narration (dialog) tends to drag on and overshadow the effect of the visuals. Even showing the old man and the visitor from different angles to capture the Nature around them would have added additional value.  The nearly still camera adds to the monotony of the situation as the old man goes into a long conversation.  "Village of the Watermills" is probably the lowest ranking one among all the episodes in the ensemble.

Some dreams seem to end prematurely - Kurosawa seems to deliberately not make statements where he easily could have.  But then they are supposed to be dreams and the endings of dreams are abrupt! And with such strong story line backed up by such narration, he does not need separate statements - the narration is the statement!