This review is based on having watched the film at home on Blu-ray with my family.

Warner brothers, with Dan Aykroyd voicing Yogi Bear and Justin Timberlake voicing his sidekick Boo Boo, have done a magnificent job of recreating the old Hannah Barbara cartoon series about the rascally bear of "Jellystone Park." This 80 minute film is very true to the spirit of the original and had both the adults and children in my family in fits of laughter. The human characters are shown in live action: the animation of Yogi, Boo Boo and special effects is so well done that you have to watch the extras if you want to work out where live action stops and computer generated images begin. Even in High Definition I couldn't see the joins.

The film starts with Yogi up to his usual tricks which will be familiar to anyone who watched the original, trying to steal "pic-a-nic baskets" from the visitors to the park, with the head ranger (Tom Cavanagh) trying to stop him. Shortly thereafter a wildlife film maker, Rachel Johnson (Anna Faris) arrives, wanting to film the unusual creatures who live at Jellystone. And then a cartoonishly evil politician, Mayor and Gubernatorial candidate Brown (Andrew Daly) comes up with a plot to close Jellystone and cut down all the trees. It will need all of Yogi's daft ingenuity and the efforts of the Ranger and Rachel working together to save the park ...

Even more than the original this film is silly but exceptionally entertaining fantasy. It was like watching a cartoon in live action, and although the film piles layer on layer of impossibilities it was extremely easy to suspend disbelief while watching the film and just enjoy it.

Quality of the visual images was superb, and the acting was excellent. Aykroyd and Timberlake wonderfully brought the talking bears to life, Cavanagh, Faris and T.J. Miller as the assistant ranger were excellent as supporting characters and Daly, with Nathan Corddry as his sycophantic assistant, made an effective villain.

A treat for both present day kids and forty or fiftysomething "big kids" reliving their childhood.