In the grand tradition of remakes, The Truth about Charlie is a butchered, poor imitation of the original.  However, I have to give credit to director Jonathan Demme for butchering Charade with such gusto...I just wish he had gone even further.  Let me explain.
I applaud Demme for attempting to modernize both the movie and its location, Paris.  He obviously made a concerted effort to show diversity by featuring an international cast and using less elite locations, thereby showing Parisians from different walks of life.  I wholeheartedly commend his motivation to show a more realistic view of the world rather than the whitewashed version prevalent in most mainstream movies.  However, I think Demme erred in that he couldn't decide whether he wanted to update Charade completely, in terms of story and style, or keep it faithful to the original.  The result is a jumbled mish-mash of Charade minus the lightness and humor, plus frenetic camera work.  The Truth about Charlie takes itself too seriously as a thriller, which, as anyone who's seen Charade knows, was hardly the intention of the original.  The plot - dead husband, missing money, mysterious acquaintances - isn't thick enough to be a straight serious thriller and by doing so, Demme seriously weakens The Truth about Charlie.  The audience also misses out on the playful cat-and-mouse that was evident between Audrey Hepburn and Cary Grant; Thandie Newton and Mark Wahlberg don't really get a chance to showcase whatever chemistry they may have brought to the roles.
However, since Charade is one of my favorite movies and I was incredibly biased going into Charlie, I made my roommate who had never seen Charade watch Charlie.  (She had also never seen a Cary Grant movie - I know, what rock has she been hiding under - so there was no basis for comparison with Wahlberg.)  She liked the movie but was confused at parts.  Demme at times uses scenes from Charade but fails to set up the scene properly, which pokes holes in the plot.  She rates the movie a 3-4 - for those viewers who want an unbiased view and happen to like Wahlberg.  One thing we did agree on was that Marky Mark should not wear a beret or formal hat...ever. :)
To sum up, Charade fans should probably stay away from Charlie as comparison and disappoint are inevitable.  For those who haven't seen the original, Charlie will likely provide mild entertainment...until you turn the disc over and watch the original and realize why they had to entice people with 2 movies for the price of one.  Good intentions though on Demme's part, just poor execution.  Two stars.