Ok, I got this film because a friend recommended it, saying that these guys go around pretending to be executives from major corporations and then take responsibility for their company's misdeeds and make pledges tha would become a PR nightmare for the companies not to follow through with.

I thought awesome! Cannot wait to see it! I'm as liberal as they come, and I could not wait to throw my support behind people doing something so controversial, yet nessecary (because let's be honest, liberals are good at being walked all over and pushed aside and that is about it; just not an effective group).

So i watched this.... 50% of the movie is filler, not a good start. I was thinking maybe they accomplish a great deal like I had heard... They crash a fabrics marketing meeting in Finland with maybe 45 nobodies in attendance and try to crash another meeting in Australia that gets canceled because of lack of attendees? Seriously? Wow, slow down.

Worse still, they dont put a great deal of effort into anything they do, (again, typical liberal), they don't work on their presentation until a few days beforehand, they don't plan anything and they accomplish nothing.

But wait, it gets worse! Their satire is the most dumbed down, stereotypical garbage that no one but a stoner freshman in college who thinks they have the whole world figured out could appreciate. You know that guy, he is out in the quad playing the 3 cords he knows on his guitar with a copy of something by nitzche or some other "tortured author" trying to look deep and impress girls with no self esteem and daddy issues. If you hate that guy, you are really going to hate this thing.

It is kind of sad because at first these guys seem really intelligent and especially well informed on the groups they wish to target. And I can ever get past the handy cam quality of the entire feature because hey, anyone who is trying to make a difference deserves all the recognition and support they can get. But this is a poor excuse for a pipe dream that acomplishes nothing. I see that they made another movie in my search, and maybe in that one they have evolved into the vigilante, corporation fighting heroes that others see, but I am so completely turned off by this first movie and it's juvenile efforts, that I have no desire to spend further time or money to find out.