Like another reviewer stated, I can hardly believe the people who posted such negative reviews watched the same show I did! Having watched all 5 seasons now, I feel the show just gets better as it goes along (though I wasn't as fond of Season 2 as Season 1 and the others. ) After Season 4's triumphant and super-creepy performance by John Lithgow, not to mention the absolutely shocking and devastating finale, I too wondered how they could top themselves. Well, they did, with the most horrifying portrait(s) of pure, unalloyed, sadistic evil yet showcased on the  series -- at least Jimmy Smits and Lithgow had their reasons, no matter how twisted. We have some suspense involving the nanny, Quinn, Peter Weller's character, and the club shooting + the annoying new female detective (?), but by far the emotional burden of the series is carried by Julia Styles as Lumen, who does an outstanding job in an extremely difficult story arc. She's completely believable as a horrifically abused victim on the brink of death who goes through all kinds of emotions as she struggles to reclaim her shattered life and become a survivor -- I love the scene when she makes scrambled eggs for Astor and Olivia -- "Good hangover food" -- and then advises Dex not to rat on them, that they've suffered enough for their little drinking spree. Speaking of Olivia, I really loved the scene when Dex takes on her mom's abusive boyfriend, explaining in clinical detail just why everything he's doing to him hurts so much and why Olivia was so terrified of the same abuse he doled out to her. Scenes like these, plus Dex's growing relationship with Lumen, show him developing into more of a human being with feelings, as other reviewers have noted -- even the killing in the shed, though not by any means altruistic nor in line with Harry's Code, shows a human response by someone under incredible grief and stress who has just been pushed over the edge. I look forward to Season 6 eagerly -- if they top Seasons 5 & 6, I will be truly impressed. I knew Michael C. Hall had cancer and have been hoping he would recover, but am sad to learn of his divorce from Jennifer Carpenter. I hope things improve for both of these talented actors who have brought us 5 seasons of fine TV.