Those of you that might suspect that a glowing NY Times endorsement would ineluctably imply a pleasingly treasonous  grossly anti-American bias and that claims to "balanced" reporting accords every sympathy and benefit of the doubt to the enemy will most definitely not be disappointed. Needless to say the "peace accord" that gave the North Vietnamese carte blanch to wage a unrestricted terminal war against the SOL South Vietnamese is accorded its usual high praise. Ironically enough President Johnson is the embattled sympathetic patriot juxtaposed to the compliant Nixon complicit with Congressional cowards who shamefully desserted our ally to the mass murders, tortures and other heinous barbarities of the communist dictator "liberators". Its truely one of the most disgusting chapters in American history. This along with the near defeat but ultimate celebrated stalemate in the Korean War marks the beginning of perversion of American values wherein treason is patriotism, cowardice is bravery, moral fatigue is virtue, weakness is strength, and defeat is victory.

Nonetheless the combat footage is interesting, depicts the undeniable brutality of war (similar to the unbelievable yet conveniently uncovered brutality of the carnage on our highways - to both humans and animals - yes you know as well as I, the dismemberments, decapitations, immolations, and disembolations).

Most of the combat footage, unintentionally, no doubt,  actually shows our soldiers as good and brave men. Never will I forget the footage of our weary grizzled soldiers firing away at the enemy during the hectic days of the Tet offensive. I saw some of that footage as a child and despite liberal anti-war parents and what to me even at that age was a brazenly biased evening new anchor, Walter Concrete, it made an indelible heroic impression on me. I wanted to be a soldier and I wanted to fight in VietNam.

Since the narrative and production bias in this series is so patent as to laughable if the subject were not so serious, it is to be recommended for its cinematographic flair alone.

Matt Reardon