I would be extremely surprised if Swedish-born director Daniel Espinosa (he made 2010's superb thriller, "Easy Money" -- among others) hasn't watched and re-watched and then re-watched again the justly-celebrated films of writer-director Michael Mann (particularly "Thief", "Manhunter", "Miami Vice", "Public Enemies" and, most notably, "Heat") because this terrific, no-holes-barred 2012 thriller definitely calls to mind those seriously kick-ass awesome Mann movies -- ones that are, at once, both incredibly beautiful (i.e., the cinematography and the camerawork), but also rather ugly as well at times (i.e., the emotional and physical violence in them) -- as well as a number of similarly-terrific 1970s-era "paranoid" thrillers (such as "Parallax View", "Black Sunday", "Marathon Man", "Twilight's Last Gleaming", "The Wilby Conspiracy", and perhaps most pointedly, "Three Days Of the Condor").

(It also happily tips its hat more than once to Stanley Kramer's 1959 classic, "The Defiant Ones").

Much like 1973's CIA-oriented "Three Days Of the Condor", Espinosa's South African-set drama involves a dupe who doesn't KNOW that he's a dupe -- Redford in "Condor"; an Oscar-worthy Ryan Reynolds here in "Safe House") -- and who eventually finds a verrrry unlikely ally (Faye Dunaway in "Condor"; Denzel Washington in "Safe House"), two men working for a government agency that both of them once trusted, but who no longer do (and probably very wisely so, as it turns out).

However, what makes "Safe House" REALLY stand out from "Condor", particularly, are the dazzling/jaw-dropping action sequences that deft screenwriter David Guggenheim and director Espinsosa intersperse throughout this relentless and extremely tense, two-hour drama. There's a superbly-staged car chase in Cape Town, a rooftop foot chase in a Johannesburg shanty town, and a number of hand-to-hand fighting sequences that are among the most believable (and, by extension, among the most gruesome) of any I've seen anytime recently in a mainstream Hollywood release ... all of which may at least partly explain why "Safe House" was such a huge, unqualified hit, not only in the U.S., but in the rest of the world as well (dazzling action set pieces tend to quite easily transcend language barriers).

But "Safe House" is also, at times, surprisingly MOVING as well -- which I think is another reason why this very smart and well-executed drama stayed with me longggg after I first it in a theater this past winter. There's a very palpable and powerful emotional gravity that runs throughout this movie, one that you almost never find in a big-budget Hollywood movie with this many dazzling action sequences in it (Michael Bay could definitely learn A LOT from Espinosa!!)

Ultimately, "Safe House" is a movie about the truly destructive nature of lies -- what they do to those of us who tell them ... and also what they do to those of us who are on the receiving end of them. Government officials around the globe would do well to heed this film's cautionary tale.

Sumptuous cinematography by Oliver Wood ("Die Hard 2", "Face/Off", the three "Bourne" movies), with a haunting and spare score by Ramin Djawadi.