Have to say that I was disappointed with this documentary. The first half was pretty solid but the second half was just toooo focused on steroids and the Yankees and Red Sox. It almost came across as obsessive about New York and Boston....Geeesh. Below are just some random complaints and things that come to mind about this film

01. There was no reason why they needed to spend so much time on the 2003 ALCS. It was worth mentioning how the Sox blew it and bounced back the following year but come on. That was wasted time.

02. Almost nothing on the 2005 White Sox. The time they spent rambling on about the 2003 ALCS could have been relegated to discussing the White Sox winning their first WS since 1917. This ending ANOTHER drought that began a year before the Red Sox.

03. The Phillies. They are a classic franchise that had only one World title under their belt until 2009. They were barely mentioned.

04. During the introduction, the narrator said that the Brewers were the only team to switch major leagues. This is false. There were plenty of teams that switched major leagues. The Reds, Cardinals, Dodgers & Pirates were some of them.

05. While steroids were certainly a subject that should have been covered, this film went on-and-on about it. I kept finding myself saying "move on, we got it. Less talk about steroids, more talk about the teams."

06. Despite the advantage of high payroll teams, the 2000's had a colorful collection of teams winning pennants and World titles. A number of teams winning their first pennant and/or WS. While other teams won their first pennant or WS in years. This would have been good territory to cover instead of rambling on about steroids......And ho-hum.....the Yankees & Red Sox.

07. I wish that Ken Burns would have produced this film with the same style and with the same narrator as the original series. I realize that Ken Burns has altered his style since 1994, but this film doesn't really seem to mesh well with the original series. It almost stands alone and unfortunately it doesn't stand alone very well let alone being part of the original series.