For all types and ages of Elvira fans, Cassandra Peterson's alter ego delivers a 5 star performance in the campy, creepy, cleavage busting story about the 'real' Elvira, who upon resigning from her infamous red sofa studio, demanding respect, and getting none, she wallows away in her dressing room, until receiving a telegram, stating her Great Aunt, Morgana Talbot, from Falwell, Massachusetts has passed on, and she is to appear for the reading of the will, as she is 'kin', she has a stake in the inheiratence.
Upon arriving in Falwell, in a decked out, black convertible, complete with barb wire wrapped around the rear view mirror, skulls lining the body of the car, an inverted pentagram inside the steering wheel, leapord print interior, with a license plate reading "KICK ASS", the Falwell residents are less then welcoming, to say the least, as the town is about as big as a zip code, and as conservative as the namesake. With a supurb storline, and plot, we get a sneak peak into Elvira's offscreen antics, and along with the one liners, wisecracks, and abundant sexual inuendos, and double entendres, the film, first out in theaters in '88 (which I watched, and LOVED), the DVD has some bonus featurettes as well as the classic movie itself. Co-written by Cassandra Peterson herself, actress/comedienne extrodiaire, this movie will leave you sliding down your own sofa, holding your stomach, from laughing so hard.
I swear, this movie I laughed so hard in, I actually had tears coming out of my eyes, and I've NEVER had that happen as I'm not big on comedies. But this one, trust me, would make old grumpy Uncle Henry even crack a grin. If only for the great cleavage shots...lol. Trust me, boys, you'll LOVE it. And to the rest of the ladies, it proves that you can be a sex symbol, AND an intelligent actress, and heroinne at the same time, as Elvira discovers, when her trademark red ruby ring is much, much more than just a piece of costume jewelry.
Friends, lovers, enemies, idolizers, all are in this unforgettable, laugh a minute spoof on horror movies, with a few scares themselves. Can't stress it enough: This movie is MUCH more than you could ever have thought it would be...