The Pursuit of Happyness, set in San Francisco in 1981, is based on the one-year struggle of Chris Gardner, a self made millionaire, had with being homeless and constantly trying to find a shelter for his son and himself while working an internship at Dean Witter. This movie is based on the autobiography of Chris Gardner. His book illustrated his abusive childhood and growing up in an atmosphere lacking love and never seeing his father. Gardner pledged to become a father of love and care for his children. After encountering many hardships, Gardner finally succeeded in the business world. But as a docudrama, this movie oversimplifies the complex issues of race and never explained why such a genuine man could suffer so much, why so many blacks were wandering aimlessly seeking for a shelter and portraying black wives as bitter and heartless women.

Will smith stars as Chris Gardner, and Jaden Smith (Will Smith's son) is Chris Gardner's son. Will smith does a flawless performance in showing one man's reach for the impossible dream. He becomes Chris Gardner and suffered the hardships. It seems as though this movie is set in the attempt of preparing Will Smith for yet another Oscar Nomination with his preparations for the movie such as growing out a beard and bringing in his own son. His performance with his son Jaden sparked the real fatherhood and the love a man has for his own son. In the scenes of suffering, one can see in the eyes of Will Smith, his fatherly love, rather than trying to find emotion with a professional child actor. Especially in the scene when smith screams at his son for wanting Captain America back. The mix of frustration, coldness and love showed through his eyes and pierced the hearts of the audience. Thandie Newton stars as Chris Gardner's wife Linda, who shows the bitterness and craziness a woman working double shifts as a hotel struggling to live with her own husband.

An interesting character also appears at the end of the movie as Christopher ells his knock knock jokes. The real Chris Gardner appears and nods at Smith. This is a successful crossover of reality and the persona of Gardner because it blends together the real and the fictional.

But it seem as though this film is produced for Will Smith rather than produced being an accurate docudrama and making the audience feel the motions of a guy trying to pursue happiness despite his harsh environment. Although in Chris Gardner's autobiography he actually encounters countless hardships and finally succeeds, when put into a film it feels as though it may be a bit too clich&eacute; for a man to run into worse and worse situations, overcoming them and finally succeeding in becoming a self-made millionaire.

Most of the movie, we see Smith chasing hippies and old people over a Density Bone Scanner, and by the end of the movie, it seems a though these are the scenes we remember and less of the hardships he encounters. More emphasis should have been put into creating the realistic atmosphere where Gardner becomes devastated by his circumstances and his frustrations. One of the only times we encounter and feel his uneasiness is when he is in the phone booth calling his wife and she tells him she's leaving. Without much explanation provided to allow the audience to further connect with him, Gardner becomes just another black man suffering on the streets with the countless others and luckily brought on screen to show the world.

Most of the debate though, lies in the oversimplification on the issues of racism and poverty of blacks. In the film when Gardner and his son are running in Glide Church, blacks were portrayed as aimlessly circling the streets and waited for a place to go. This film doesn't provide an explanation as to why they are. Blacks in San Francisco were constantly discriminated against in the 1970s, making lives extremely cruel for them. It was difficult for them to find decent work besides domestic labor and there was a major influx of African Americans into San Francisco to find jobs in the wartime industry.

It seems as though this movie undermines the situation when showing Gardner's successful ob interview without a suit or tie, covered in paint and previously spending a night in jail. Although the aimlessly wandering blacks were there partially to portray the reality, the audiences have no connection or clue as to what the situation in the 1970s was like. The movie is made as though 1970s was a prosperous and integrating time. But in reality, 1970s was plagued by stagflation, which is high inflation and high unemployment rates. But if the audience did not know their history, blacks may just seem like a bunch of homeless people wandering around the streets. Perhaps showing short scenes of other blacks struggling to find jobs and being rejected would've made this a better docudrama.

Gardner's story is supported to be one that inspires youngsters to never give up and stay strong. But in reality, the series of events that happened within the two hours of the movie actually happened within a relative number of years. This two hour packed portrayal of Gardner's life distorted Chris Gardner's life and makes it an inaccurate account of Chris Gardner's life. Gardner became a multi-millionaire who is an influential speaker and who continues to help people with his own power. The director seems to have focused too much on piecing together a well-rounded character that he forgot to put in the edges to Chris Gardner such as his hobbies and what he plays with his son so that we, the audience, can connect to.

This movie is of a black man's simple life and a struggle to reach for the impossible. There were some times when we could feel the love between Gardner and his son, but by the end of the movie, one already feels too tired from the chasing of the Density Bone Scanner and anger from the distorted life of Chris Gardner that we don't become inspired by the actual story of a man trying to pursue happiness.