Two intelligent but mean-minded and resentful young women, who have been made that way by a lifetime of emotional deprivation, meet in this small village where Sophie (Sandrine Bonnaire) has come to apply for a job as a housekeeper to a prosperous middle-class family. They are both alone in the world, and to each other they display a genuine warmth and affection that is terribly at odds with their attitude towards everyone else. And it doesn't help that the family that Sophie goes to work for has everything; both material wealth and a happy, contented family life. The contrast between their lot and Sophie's couldn't be greater. And the fact that they are such close-knit happy family makes the denouement so much more painful to watch. They reach out to sophie and try to make her feel  as much at home and part of the family as possible. But she can't stop feeling envious, nor get over her sense of  injustice; why should they have so much when she has nothing? And her sense of injustice is aggravated by a secret shame;  she cannot read or write. 
In the beginning the family are well  pleased with her work; she is conscientious and hard working. But this is eventually undermined by the bad influence of her friend Jeanne (Isabelle Huppert), and the fact that she keeps disappearing to meet Jeanne - who the husband hates because, at the post office where she works, she keeps opening his mail.
And then she begins smuggling Jeanne into the house to watch television, something which, when he finds out, angers the husband. But the final straw comes when she tries to blackmail  the daughter into not telling her parents about her inability to read or write. This leads to her instant dismissal which enrages Jeanne. They want vengeance, but what they eventually do seems a spur of  the moment thing.
You feel deeply sad about what happens to this charming family and almost as sad about what happens to Sophie and Jeanne. The overriding feeling at the end of the film is a sense of loss.
If the two girls had never met they would have continued to be bitter and resentful but it would  have ended there. It was their coming together which enlarged and reinforced their feelings and gave them the  confidence to act - with awful consequences for both themselves and the family. They were victims of a kind of mob-mentality.