I actually only got to see "Casanova" by accident -- a friend and I went to the movies to see "Match Point" but were too late for the final showing of the evening, and only Casanova was still available. Rather than find something else to do, we watched this movie.

First, the good:

1) Casanova is absolutely gorgeously shot on location in Venice, Italy. Seeing all the lovely costumes and locations makes the viewer wish he or she were there.

2) Oliver Platt as the obese lard salesman (not a joke, he's actually a lard salesman)is very funny in his role and probably the brightest spot in this movie

3) Jeremy Irons, as usual, delivers his trademark ice-cold, frightening authority figure character in the form of an "indecency inquisitor" from the Vatican, though this time he convincingly adds a comedic element to it because his character botches things in a funny way

4) I noticed that despite the perfection of the scenery, the actors themselves didn't wear too much makeup. This is evident in the fact that one can easily see mild acne on Heath Ledger's (Casanova) cheeks, and also on several of the other male and even female characters, including Sienna Miller as Casanova's main love interest. This doesn't detract one iota from the film and actually makes them seem more "real" and human.

The bad:

1) The romance between Casanova (Ledger) and Francesca Bruni (Miller)seems kind of forced and unconvincing. The plot just seems to require Casanova to be in love with her to move the story along, but on screen there's no real reason to believe why he loves her compared to all the other girls with whom he associates.

2) Even though it's a comedy, there were just too many scenes where there was a near escape or other silly event to make even a forgiving viewer think "okay, now this is just dumb." Example, there is a scene where in Casanova and Francesca are about to be executed, but they escape in Robin Hood fashion at the last moment thanks to a lot of convenient interruptions and impossible-in-real-life stunts. While entertaining on a slapstick level, these scenarios made the movie more cartoonish, less funny, and even less romantic.

3) Too convenient, in a love story sense. It seems that nobody got their heart broken or became the "odd person out" of the various romantic match-ups because absolutely everyone was conveniently matched with their true love. As one is watching the movie he or she gets the feeling that at least a few of the characters involved will emerge unhappy, but it seems the director couldn't bring themself to be at least a bit realistic, and instead resorted to a sitcom ending where everyone meets the love of their life.

Ultimately, Casanova is entertaining for the two hours it takes to get through it. All through the movie, you'll probably regret not seeing another movie instead. After the movie is over you'll have nothing to discuss with your friends about it, other than how it's lightweight and kind of sucked. It's not a "smart" movie where you can discuss various characters and debate things.

Oh well, I guess it's because the movie is a comedy. Watch it if you like, but beware! The Princess Bride did it first, and was funnier.