Although this film was released in 1962 (albeit to critical and popular acclaim), it still retains its quality given its dark human themes of sibling rivalry, psychological terror and dementia, and outright sadism and masochism. It is an outstanding film in every right.

Bette Davis (Jane Hudson) and Joan Crawford (Blanche Hudson) play elder sisters who, as children growing up into adulthood, develop a bitter and cruel rivalry that puts Blanche in the care of Jane who is anything but a true care-giver. Despite her hey-days as a successful 1930's movie star (some 25 years earlier), Blanche has been reduced to a wheel-chair invalid (owing to a hit-and-run accident involving Jane of course) and becomes dependent on Jane for her everyday needs. Jane, a vaudeville-era child star who becomes a 1930's film actress failure and is largely forgotten, ends up financially desperate in her old age, and has no alternative but to live with Blanche who provides them both a decent living in a physically decayed mansion. What results for Blanche is a tormented life that is a series of insults and pain methodically inflicted by Jane who has, over the years, become insane due to her well-nursed hatred for her sister. Jane is clearly the aggressor in this sick relationship, and her ugliness even manifests itself in physical terms as she struggles to re-capture her long-lost days as a vaudeville star with the aid of Victor Buono's Edwin (picture an old haggard woman dolled up with inch-thick lip-stick, make-up, and a wig).

Bette Davis plays Jane with such well-restrained and uncontrollable ferocity that you witness her deep psychosis with self-serving yet unsympathetic shock. Her performance is so over the top that you become immersed with the grotesque nature of her pathetic character, who is quite reminiscent of Gloria Swanson's Norma Desmond in Sunset Boulevard. Joan Crawford portrays Blanche with such genuine helplessness that you feel her life unravel as Jane starves, beats, and denies her all human comfort. Although Blanche is a victim, we learn at the film's shocking end why Blanche became resigned to her savage treatment, and this revelation explains her half-hearted effort to defend herself against Jane's onslaught. In this vein, Crawford's performance is intentionally un-empowering and counters Davis's no-holds barred portrayal. It is this combination that brings out the worst of Blanche and Jane, and there is no chance of redemption here for either.

The film's technical composition facilitates the emotional intensity the story demands. Filmed in black and white, the film's presentation lucidly captures the bizarre nature of Jane and Blanche and the events that drive them toward sickening madness. The use of a colorized format would have overwhelmed the senses which are already absorbed with a dark story and a lurid set of characters. Just take a look at the colorized images of the DVD's menu selections and you'll understand.

This movie clearly possesses excellent direction and plot, extraordinary character actors and  production values, and an ending scene that will haunt you. It deserves five stars !!