Life is not a comic book, and Superman doesn't exist.

There are no caped crusaders, no black-cloaked night-defying vigilantes serving as unseen sentinels of Truth, Order, and Justice, watching over the harried commuter as the literal incarnation of the better angels of our Nature. The City out there has teeth and claws: you're going to get in trouble, and when you do, no one is going to come to your rescue.

You see that weaselly, wizened, bespectacled clerk across the aisle from us on the train? That's the one, you got him pegged---looks like Clark Kent, doesn't he? Now, when that wild-eyed guy three rows down from him opens up his trenchcoat to reveal an AK-47 and makes the 6PM rush-hour express his personal butcher-shop, Clark Kent is going to stay just that---weaselly, bespectacled Clark Kent. No phone booth transformation for him, no salvation for you and me and our fellow passengers. Nope, he's going to scream, and try to run, and die Clark Kent, along with you and me.

In our world, men and women die meanginglessly every day: in traffic pile-ups, in air disasters, pushed on the subway tracks by anonymous madmen, who later disappear in the crowd. There is no Superman; there never was, there never will be. Or will there? M. Night Shyamalan leads us right down that particular rabbit hole in the eerily profound and deeply moving "Unbreakable", his meditation about the meaning of a superhero in a callow age.

Case in point: Security guard David Dunn (Bruce Willis) is riding home on the train from a Manhattan job interview (he didn't get an offer---see?---real life). He checks out his seatmate; yeah he's married---but it's a bad marriage, dying a day at a time---and she's lithe, tall, slender, good facial structure. She stows her carry-on in the overhead bin, and as she does her shirt rides up, revealing a black rose tattoo. Nice.

They make small-talk; she's a sports-agent on her way to meet with a rising young football star; in the football spirit, David Dunn makes a pass---and fumbles. She gets creeped out and takes a seat a few rows down. A minute later the train shakes, there's a high keening noise, another furious bump---the bad kind, the Something is Very Wrong kind---and the train derails.

Everyone aboard dies. Everyone except David Dunn, who walks away from the steaming, smoldering carnage without a scratch.

Shellshocked, baffled, confused, he attends the church service for the dead; staggering outside, he finds a glossy invitation---with a cryptic phrase---to a Philadelphia art gallery affixed to his windshield.

That leads him to reclusive art dealer Elijah Price (Samuel L. Jackson, who along with Willis carries this movie with poise and presence), taunted as "Mr. Glass" by his erstwhile classmates, sufferer of a rare bone disease called Osteogenesis Imperfecta (a real disease): the slightest stress can snap his bones to splinters.

In turn, we meet Elijah's true life's work: reasoning that if a man of Glass could exist the Bell Curve of human genetics would also feature a Man of Steel, he has spent years sifting through horrific accidents for survivors--and more importantly, for that one man in a million who could be a Superhero.

Just as with ghosts and werewolves and vampires, you can deal every day with arguments against---but it only takes one true positive to change the world. And in David Dunn, Elijah feels he has found his Positive.

Dunn isn't having any of it: besides, he has tons of evidence why he's not a comic book hero: he's just a GUY---dead-end job, marriage on the rocks, and he's not invulnerable---hell, as a rising young college football star, he was injured in a nasty car accident---with his then girlfriend and now wife Audrey (Robin Wright Penn)---that injured his legs and ended his football career.

The superficial have called Shyamalan a great many things: a spooky director, a horror director, a 'twist' director---but in fact, M. Night has really always been interested in probing the Human Soul, and has tilted at a wide range of genres---Alien invasion, Ghosts, Monsters in the Woods, Superheroes---to dig into the human condition. What makes us tick. What distinguishes us from the animals. Our Gods, our night terrors, our inspirations. Knowledge---of reality, of self, of destiny---comes at a price. And as this strangely sedate, moody piece winds its way to culmination, we find that Dunn's price is extraordinary frightening---and severe.

Shyamalan serves "Unbreakable" up as a warped riff on the superhero origin story: the initial reluctance and bewilderment on the part of the crime-fighter, the secret identity, the strange ellipitical orbit of superhero and supervillain. His directing here is restrained and reticent, and this restraint is given fuller effect by cinematographer Eduaro Serra, who casts everything through a blue filter than enhances the moodiness, uncertainty, and depression.

Finally, M. Night proves again that he's an actor's director: this moodpiece is brought off nicely by essentially four actors: Willis playing it with brooding---but hopeful---understatement as David Dunn; Jackson serving as perfect sounding board, foil, and fencing master for the reluctant hero Dunn; and Robin Wright Penn (Audrey) and Spencer Treat Clark bringing up the rear as the dubious wife and adoring son.

Not a flashy, gangbusting epic like Spider-Man, "Unbreakable" is no less a moody, thoughtful treatment of the Origin Story---no less so because Shyamalan is wrestling with the hero within all of us. Prepare to be have your emotions broken---prepare to be shaken.

JSG