Vincent Cassel has been one of my husband's favorite actor for some time now. Ironically, that is how we came to watch this film "Irreversible." I knew nothing of this film other than: 1.) Vincent Cassel 2.) Monica Belluci (One of MY favorite actresses; Please watch "Malena") 3.) French film. These facts did not prepare me in the least bit for what we were about to see.

I do not actively pursue the "super-violence" in film. I do, however, pursue creativity at its greatest with a camera and that is what this film has completely and utterly achieved.

Was it hard to watch? Absolutely. Would I watch it again? Never. Do I think it is one of the greatest achievements in film? Undoubtedly.

If this film had come out in the U.S., it would never have been released under an "R" rating. MAYBE NC-17 and thats if luck is on your side. I am saying this to give the viewer of this review a very clear message that the scenes of rape and violence are so hard to watch that tears welled up in my eyes and I had to look away for SEVERAL minutes; the sounds were enough though, believe me.

Almodovar achieves this very specific and rare talent for taking a subject in which no one, and I mean no one, would ever pay for as entertainment for the weekend evening. "Bad Educacion" is about priests molesting little boys. Horrible topic but wonderful movie.

Child abuse is very real. And so is RAPE. 1 in 4 women in the U.S. has been raped.

This film is VERY REAL. The rape scene is 9 MINUTES long. You squirm, you are in disgust , and you feel, well, frankly raped yourself. That is why people walked out of the movie theaters.

It is so important for us to understand the plights of others on EVERY level so that we may prevent and educate. Doing this through a film is significant since we are now in the age of iphones, internet; antiquated modes of communication such as books, newspapers, etc are being pushed into oblivion. Thus, the accessibility of this movie with such a powerhouse crew of actors allows random members of the public to experience this compelling film.