My husband and I watched this concert together for the first time last year (it was actually my third time and his very first).  And we both fell in love with it (me again and my husband for the first time).  The music is astounding, the cast was amazing, and we've been held spellbound by the songs for the last 365 days...  I love how they thread the same melodies throughout the whole story -- but changing the words as the story progresses, people grow, develop, encounter different devastations...  -- it provided continuity and tied everything together with a kind of explosive power that a good reader like me loves.

Although the story is called "the miserables" --and how apropos for all the heartache and misery that is depicted of the characters (more poignant because such misery is not fictitious), what was most striking to me is the story of redemption.  With the opening lines, the question that hangs in the air -- is it possible for a person to really change from 'a thief' to 'an honest man', from bad to good?  With one incredible act of mercy and gift of grace, Jean Valjean embodies the answer to this question.  Meanwhile, Inspector Javert, who is dubious of such a possibility and intent on putting Valjean back in chains, is driven by a lifelong obsession to see justice done -- so much so that he is blind to the possibility that the answer could be in the affirmative.  He is blind -- until mercy is shown to him.  In a world full of hate where individuals live with the motto of "an eye for an eye" and survival of the fittest, to be given an evil turn for an evil turn is what's expected.  It's when we are shown mercy that suddenly the music halts and the world stops turning and we know that our miserable selfish selves must die and a new life be born.

Redemption.  I'm a sucker for redemption stories.  And... the thing is, that is only one part of this whole story.  You'll have to watch it yourself to see why in the world it's so captivating.  And if all this is not convincing enough, on October 8, 2006, Les Miserables celebrated its 21st Birthday and officially became the longest running musical in the world -- IN THE WORLD!!  That's quite a lot to boast of.  Les Mis took the whole world by storm.  Including us.

I recommend this to everyone -- if you can get your hands on it.