Let me confess upfront that Sylvester McCoy is not my favorite Doctor (or anyone else's, apparently, outside of a small circle of friends and family).  I'm a hopeless Patrick Troughton (Second Doctor) fan, having obsessively hunted down and watched (or in most cases, listened to - thanks to the BBC's unforgiveable "tidying up" policies of the early 70s) every scrap of his superb work as the Doctor, I'm embarrassed to admit to myself.  Tom Baker was the Doctor I knew first and best, and he runs a close second to Troughton.  As for the others, well, this is the first Sylvester McCoy storyline I've seen.  I would rank the Doctors in this rough order, from best to least best:

Patrick Troughton

Tom Baker

John Pertwee

Peter Davison

William Hartnell (for the original, cranky old coot take on the Doctor, rather than for any particularly impressive acting)

Sylvester McCoy

Colin Baker -

 though it's probably a close tossup at the top and bottom tiers.  Don't get me wrong, I'm glad we have them all.  The best storylines I've seen (or heard, in Troughton's case) so far are:

Fury from the Deep  (no episodes surviving on film/video),

Faceless Ones  (two episodes surviving on film/video),

City of Death, and

Talons of Wang-Chiang.

Ghost Light, featuring my second-least-favorite Doctor, might just make this list.  The problem is that my copy of the @#%&ing DVD started skipping (on all three of my DVD players) halfway into Episode 2, and finally gave up the ghost (with my apologies) altogether at what I presume to be the end of Episode 3, leaving me with no idea how the damn thing ends.  Somehow, though, this lack of resolution probably enhances the quirky attractions of this odd absurdist story, and I haven't yet decided whether to return the DVD.  This is how Samuel Beckett would have written for Doctor Who.  Based on the one-second-on, twenty-second-pause, two seconds on, nature of how I was forced to view the final scenes of the last episode, I gather that Light (and what a truly marvelous character this is, a great pleasure just to behold this high-voiced, not really well acted, but irresistably glowing, frustrated cataloger of evolving Earth lifeforms) was somehow stopped just in the nick of time from destroying the house (and apparently South England and the rest of the world), but I have no idea how this happened, nor what became of Josiah (and who really cares what happens to Control, so long as she just goes away - to Java perhaps?)  Any denouement would have been an anticlimax.  While McCoy is no Olivier, he has a certain something in this darker, more withdrawn (or mousy) regeneration of the Doctor which is appealing in its way;  his acting seems to consist largely of pursed lips and rather lifeless mumbling, but it comes together in this "actor proof" role (to quote the great Tom Baker).  Ace is the star of this one, with superb support from the characters playing Josiah, Mrs. Pritchard and her daughter, Dr. Nettleton, and Nimrod.  The character Light owes considerably more to the special effects people than the actor, but what a memorable creation this is!  Originally, the script apparently made some sense (and seems to have been fairly routine Doctor Who, gathering from the director's plot summary offered as a special feature) before it was mercilessly chopped to fit into the required three-episode format for the show at this time, and yet in some perverse way, that adds to the enjoyment of the production.  I don't really care how the thing turns out, and for all I know, the film was supposed to pause and restart in this irritating (but suspenseful) manner. So many mysteries remaining unravelled in this schlocky plot: Were the night-emerging maids supposed to be human beings, mesmerized as the matriarch and her daughter, or were they some sort of evolved trilobites collected on Light's ship's earlier visit?  Why did Josiah's castoff husks still have the ability to flail about unconvincingly and respond to orders from Control?  Could Josiah evolve clothing as well as anatomy?  Why is Control's voice male in the first episode?  What was Ace being initiated into, exactly?  Why was the house still "evil" when Ace visited it 100 years later, long after Light fades, when she burned it down?  Were any or all of these mysteries resolved in the concluding moments of the melodrama?  This DVD is well worth looking into, and certainly fully entertaining - much more about the sheer joy of acting and of this great series, than about something so mundane as linear plotline!  Go get it, and don't tell me how it ends.