"3:10 to Yuma" stars Russell Crowe, who gives a thrilling performance as an outlaw, but an outlaw who is somewhat cultured, with class and sex appeal.  Ben Foster is his sidekick, or one of the motley crew who ride with him, and he is the epitome of evil, reminding me of Richard Widmark as he plays the arch villain to the hilt.  Peter Fonda plays the part of a detective.  Besides his acting ability, I admire him for how  discriminating he is in the parts he chooses.  Alan Tudyk is excellent as a doctor who finds himself drawn into the action.  The film is about good and evil (so what else is new) and though Russell Crowe is a criminal, he's not as focused on evil as Foster is; he has redeeming qualities.  Christian Bale is supposedly the "good" to Russell Crowe's "evil," but this is a thinking person's western, and it is obvious that the "good" has elements of "evil," or at least flaws, and vice versa.  Quite a lot of killing takes place in this film, and that is why I rate it four stars instead of the five it really deserves.  It starts out with a robbery that is more like a full scale war and it ends with a war-like confrontation on the streets of a town called Contention.  But Crowe, Fonda, Foster, Tudyk, Bale and the entire cast are such fine actors, and the Western countryside so apropos to the action that I really liked the film.  The main kudos go to Crowe, who gets so amazingly into his characters.  There are two women in it, Bale's wife and a barmaid, both of whom have eyes for Crowe.  Who wouldn't!  I will never get over that scene in "Gladiator" when he reveals himself as Maximus.  In this film, there's nothing that dramatic; just a series of good shots of him looking like his character, Ben Wade, a complicated bad man, a thinker and an artist who is sure of himself.  Good to see on the big screen, because of the New Mexican landscape that goes so well with the good/evil theme, and how wonderful to be able to hear dialogue, unlike the DVDs I watch, where for some reason sound doesn't come through properly.  And the dialogue is darn good, with some memorable lines.  The sound track is also quite beautiful, written by Marco Beltrami, who seems to be paying homage a bit to the spaghetti western composer, Ennio Morricone.  Last but not least, I believe Russell Crowe is a natural horseman, and seeing the rapport between him and his horse is appealing.  Well, I guess I'm just an incurable horse opera lover.  If you are, too, see this movie!