Arnold Schwarzenegger might very well be the only Republican I can stand to watch for the duration of a two plus hour film.  He's funny, intellegent, well spoken and consistently churns out some of the best action movies around.  Much of this success can be attributed to his partnership with Titanic director James Cameron, who's provided him with some his best material to date in the 1994 action/comedy True Lies.
In it he plays Harry Tasker, a spy posing as a computer salesman to his wife and daughter, which is a funny concept in it of itself, let alone to have the Terminator cast in the title role.  But what's so remarkable about his performance is that he does an astonishingly convincing job of passing himself off as an oafish slug.  Yet even despite the domesticated way in which he presents himself to his family, it doesn't diminish his credibility as an intellegence agent, thanks in large part to his commanding presence which is never too far from the surface.
The action gets off to a rousing start with a white knuckled opening sequence that's sure to leave you breathless.  After a short break to develop the characters and the situation we're thrown back in the fray with a chase through the city streets of DC, leading from malls to parks and eventually winding up on the roof of the Mariott.  It's really quite spectacular.
Of course, they can't maintain this frenetic pace for long, so James Cameron makes the smooth transition into comedy with the introduction of Bill Paxton as a mystery man named Simon.  You see, Simon's trying to bait Harry's wife, Helen (Jamie Lee Curtis), into an affair.  Little does he know that this "bored housewife" is married to a spy who after overhearing her talk about him to a coworker puts the full wait of the CIA (or whatever agency it is that he works for) behind investigating their relationship.  Sure it's "a misappropriation of government resources," as Tom Arnold chimes in, but when a movie's this much fun you don't question it's plausibility.
The laughs keep coming for about an hour when the seamless transition is made back into action.  The story somehow manages to shift into a plot involving Arab terrorists without disrupting the flow of the movie.  The terrorists threaten to blow up one major US city each week until we withdraw our troops from the Persian Gulf.  Its seems a reasonable request given the fact that we're not doing much good over there, but I won't get into that here.
The terrorists are as sterotypical as ever which Cameron tries to counteract by adding a few token minorities, who serve no real purpose but are nice window dressing for 20th Century Fox.  I suppose we've been spoiled by David O. Russell's groundbreaker Three Kings, which for the first time in a long time shed the Arab community in a primarily positive light.  But I can't very well hold this against a Schwarzenegger film which has no other purpose than to entertain, and it does.
Kudos to Tom Arnold as the wisecracking sidekick to Arnold's action hero role, and Jamie Lee Curtis who has never been more believeable than she is here as a frumpy housewife.  But the performance that resonates most with me was from Bill Paxton, showing an inclination towards comedy in one of his best roles to date.  As for Arnie, he does a nice job chewing on the scenery, delivering what lines he's given, but his performance is so rooted in his screen persona that I can't imagine anyone else being able to pull it off.
This is the type of movie I wish James Cameron would revert back to.  One with modest ambitions, not overwrought with sentimentality (or arrogance) like Titanic, but a whole hearted summer blockbuster that knows what it is and delivers.