Sunshine seems to have been created as part of a contest to see how many genres a director could fit in one movie. It's got its summer blockbuster special effects, its sci-fi atmospheric thriller moments, and even some slasher horror bits thrown in.

If only Sunshine's director Danny Boyle could pick one and stick with it, the movie could have been really good. As it is, though, Sunshine is a jumble. A really good-looking jumble.

The movie starts with such promise. It has a cool back story and enough science to satisfy and facilitate the suspension of disbelief. (The premise, and this is not a spoiler, is that Earth is slipping into an Ice Age due to a weakening and eventual extinguishing of the Sun. Eight astronauts are sent on a rescue mission to create a supernova of sorts -- to set off an explosion in the Sun and create a new star).

The beginning visuals are quite stunning, especially on a nice TV. There are frequent shots of the Sun, Mercury, and the outside of the spacecraft. And while the ship is cool to explore, the viewer begins to get a sense of dread. This is when the movie launches into its atmospheric thriller mode.

Something about space lends itself to the atmosphere of dread. Of course Alien is the standard most atmospheres are compared to, but this movie also reminded me of Descent. It must be the closed-off nature of space (and caves). Again, Sunshine succeeds. I was getting edgy watching by myself. The first time you see a subliminal image, yes, it really is there. I rewound frame-by-frame to see what the picture was, the whole time feeling like I was in a thriller myself, about to be shocked by the horror this freeze frame would contain.

This sense of dread is multiplied a hundred times when the crew is forced to investigate an abandoned spacecraft (the original mission that mysteriously failed seven years prior). I was fully prepared to be creeped out -- not startled by GOTCHA! horror. And that's where the movie begins to fall apart. All of a sudden, it turns into almost a slasher movie, complete with chases through dark hallways and stabbings.

From this point on, the movie spirals a bit out of control, although not terribly so. Chase scenes are interspliced with stop-action blurry shots of who-knows-what. The movie eventually paints itself into an ending you knew was coming, and one that leaves no room for a twist. It is a shame the movie becomes so muddled, because it had a chance to be an absolutely great sci-fi flick. (Something that The Core, for example, gave up two minutes into the film).

Sunshine is worth a see. Just don't expect too much.

Sunshine Rating: 75 / 100
Subratings
Soundtrack: 8 / 10 (surprisingly good, but one of the stranger choices for the end credits)
Acting: 7 / 10 (never felt very attached or invested in any characters, though they are forced to make some tough choices)
Sci-Fi Backstory: 7 / 10 (whole lot better than The Day After Tomorrow)