Kitano Takeshi's take on the Zatoichi series is a fine film in it's own right.  However, in the context of the Zatoichi series, I felt that this was a lackluster movie.  Most all the elements of a Zatoichi movie were there, except the most important one of all!

 Now as far as filmmaking goes, I admit that Takeshi is a multi-talented, world class filmmaker.  But Katsu Shintaro not only starred as Zatoichi, but also wrote, directed and produced some of the installments.  He even wrote and sang the theme song!  Katsu Shintaro is synonymous with Zatoichi.  I'm not saying Katsu is a better filmmaker than Takeshi, I just think he's a better Zatoichi movie maker.

 Takeshi does craft a compelling tale, and most of the elements are there .  But let's face it, Zatoichi movies follow an obvious pattern.  He comes across some honest, simple country folk who are beset by corrupt officials/yakuza.  Zatoichi confronts and warns them, having lost face they retaliate against the peasants, which forces Zatoichi into a final showdown.  Of course there's a lot more depth; interwoven sub-plots with characters on both side of the conflict, moral shades of grey.  These movies were always great at showing the dark side of human nature, and of the Japanese Feudal system (where most samurai movies show a romanticized version).  Zatoichi movies always showed the view from the bottom, how peasants were bullied and terrorized by the powers that be.  Kitano did capture the dark, edgy feel of the series.  Kitano should be applauded for not reinventing the wheel, and sticking with a winning formula, instead of succumbing to vanity and reimagining the series in his image.

 So we've got the humble blind masseur with the cane sword who acts as champion for the downtrodden little guy.  We've got arterial sprays, goofy slapstick, witty dialogue, severed limbs... what's missing?  Unfortunately it's the role of Zatoichi and Kitano's portrayal of him.  The role itself was small, and Kitano's performance was grey, limp, and colorless.  You can't not compare this to Katsu Shintaro who played Zatoichi with such a wide range, he was pitiful but praise worthy, gentle to the weak and vicious to bullies, he'd laugh and endure insults towards himself but draw at the drop of a hat other times, he'd crack a goofy fart joke one minute and be beating a guy with his own broken limb the next, he was dirty and ate like a pig but treated others humanely, he played stupid but it was just a way for him to unravel webs of deceit.  I just didn't get this from Takeshi at all, partially because the role wasn't written that way, and also because Kitano delivered a flat performance.  I wanted to like it, but it just wasn't there for me.

 Again Takeshi is a great filmmaker in his own right, this just isn't his milieu.  It's like David Lynch doing James Bond, Jim Jarmusch doing Rocky, or David Cronenberg doing Conan (hmmm that might work!).  But then again Katsu Shintaro had decades to grow into the part, so I'll give Takeshi another chance.

 By the way, I'm sure that some artistic justification for the peroxide blond hair and the tap dance sequence can be fabricated.  But really now, it was completely unnecessary in this context.  Zatoichi movies are much better when they end on a bittersweet note, with plenty of torment and pathos for us to mull over.