I am an apocalypse junkie. I was in the Army Chemical corps in 1978. I read and enjoyed Hal Lindsey's LATE GREAT PLANET EARTH. This is really a very funny movie! I noticed that it had been produced in England. And I would have had a hard time imagining any studio in America back then permitting such an irreverent movie to be made in this country. Yet even Bonzo Headrest Reagan had seen this movie had asked where the War Room was after he was elected president. There was no "War Room" in real life.It reminds me of a famous anti nuclear poster in the 80's that could be interpreted as either insulting to Reagan or Breshnev!
I had seen the trailer where they said that Stanley Kubrick had read 50 books on the subject of nuclear war in preperation for this movie. I'll bet Hal Lindsey did not read that many books as background research for his bestseller THE LATE GREAT PLANET EARTH!
The Cold War paranoia stuff about the Soviets was hillarious! I remeber myself in 7th grade in 1972 that I would not sing WHEN I'M 64 by the Beattles because I myself thought rock music was some sort of communist conspiracy! Although it is true that they did not let rock music into Russia until after the Cold War, so said Van Halen or David Lee Roth! So, maybe there was something to this. But the things that they say about the Soviets is so ridiculous you know it is all just a farce!
Generally, I also believe that the end of all things is near as the Bible says. So, why not go out with a laugh?
And the thing about the wheelchair bound Nazi scientist is a real laugh to me. I had studied in German in college that the US Army had recruited a bunch of former Nazi missile scientists from Peenemunde. But that guy is a real nut job as many scientists in real life are! I had to laugh hard when he kept giving that raised arm Nazi Roman salute to the American President as though he was saluting Hitler-"Mein Fuhrer!" Maybe some of our presidents remind me of Hitler, too!
Dr. Strangelove had talked about hiding enough people in underground mines to wait out the nuclear armageddon to insure the survival with society. In TIME  magazine in 1992, I had read a story about Mt. Weather in West Virginia where the government has a bunker built under the mountain to shelter the President, Congress and Supreme Court in the event of a nuclear war. so, the people who will cause the nuclear war will be sitting pretty themselves!