When I bought this, from the reviews I'd read I'd assumed that this was one of those "best of" collection DVDs. I was disapointed but wanted an ORIGINAL Turtles fix any way I could get it, imagine my surprise when I found a collection of the first episodes. It also includes (oddly) some of the 'last unreleased episodes which I'm assuming they put on here because they knew that they wouldn't sell that well if they were a stand alone at the end of the DVD season run. Anyway, to my point...

I know many of you complain about this only being 5 episodes and they need to release seasons etc etc... but the fact was, the first Turtles cartoons shown was actually only a 5 episode series arc introducing them and seeing if they would be popular enough to continue as a full blown season. If it had bombed they would have canned future TMNT episodes that they were working on. As we all know, it took off and they rushed more out. THIS IS THE FIRST SEASON, I know its small, but it was all there was at first. I just hope that they hurry up with season 2 and on. This really is something they should have addressed better on the DVD packaging and the product description on this site.

The "unaired episodes" I barely watched, I'd sadly stopped watching TMNT by the end of the shows run so I have no idea who these other characters are etc. Annoyingly, these unaired episodes start in the middle of a story arc about Leo's mutation being unstable or something, again, I stopped watching them, I'll bring them out to watch after getting (and seeing) the rest of the seasons of TMNT. I suggest buying it for the begining of TMNT, not these extra episodes.

As for the technical issues, yes, these episodes sadly aren't the best they could be, they're dirty, and slightly grainy (the reasons that it only gets 4 stars). But they don't look any worse than how they looked on TV (and obviously look much better than the VHS cassettes).

People, Please realize that what you're getting *IS* the begining of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and buy it, so that we can get the rest of the seasons on DVD as soon as possible.