This is an overlooked wonderful character study that should hopefully be out on DVD worldwide.

A synopsis of the film can be found in many places, but in short, this is a character study of a hapless magician, deftly played by Anthony Hopkins, who hits success when he becomes a ventriliquist with a dummy named "Fats", yet Fats may seem more in control...or alive, than one might realize.

This movie was a box office and critical flop when it came out, but I believe there are a few reasons why, and why they don't mean anything anymore. First, the film was released at a time when slow character studies were on the wane, and films like Jaws, Star Wars, and Halloween were capturing audiences attention. It also was frought with comparison to two excellent Twilight Zone episodes, Caeser and Me, and The Dummy (one of the series best). But more important, and most significant, is that the teaser trailer to this film was one of the most chilling, riveting previews in cinema history. A simple shot of a dimly lit Fats receiting a little poem, "Abracadabra I sit on his knee. Presto-Chango, and then he is me..." People saw this, were scared out of their wits, and expected a tense, thrilling film. Instead they were greeted with a film with a slow opening, and a gradual character study. But while that might sound dull, or drab, I promise you it is not. Once you get into this film Hopkins and Fats are compelling, and the tension at times is very thick and harrowing. It may not have been the horror film people were expecting, but I assure you that Fats would make Chucky pee his pants.

Of note: If you purchase this film here, or on eBay, you are very likely to get a full screen (Pan and Scan) film likely lifted at one point from a Betacam version for TV, with no extras, and the terrific teaser trailer absent. The film is still worth watching, certainly, but this film really needs the full treatment on DVD, widescreen, stereo, the teaser trailer, and commentaries by those involved. Maybe even by Hopkins, and Fats!