CSI: Miami is a pale imitation of the original and superior show. First off the characters have barely any of the appeal or charisma or depth of character that the original CSI investigators have. Second, while the original has a creepy gothic tone CSI:Miami tries to be glamorous like Miami Vice but this this isn't the problem is that where the original contains elements of suspense and mystery that are esential to a good who done it, Miami goes for an over the top action adventure tone and contains none of the sly dark humor of the original. Instead of the team solving a simple murder we've seen Miami use "big action sequences" that use really bad CGI. Often their cases involve larger that life circumstances or large disasters. We've seen a bridge fall apart with cars on it, a tidal wave wipe out a whole block and David Caruso drive his Humvee through an exploding building and each one of these scenes were laugh out loud funny instead of exciting.

Thirdly, and most importantly,  the main problem is David Caruso. While he was OK on NYPD Blue and good in King of New York and Session 9, on CSI:Miami he consistently gives THE WORST acting performance on network television. The character is played all wrong. The Humvee that he drives is too over the top and unlike William Peterson, who plays the character of Grissom with intelegence and grace, Caruso plays it as the same tough guy that he did in NYPD Blue. Grissom is a scientist first and foremost who is slightly nerdy but useses intellegence and inductiveness to outwit his opponent and solve his cases. Caine comes off nothing like a scientist. He acts as a tough guy who bullies and threatens all of his suspects. He threatens at least one character per episode that either he'll get them or they'll be sorry if they don't give him the information he is seeking. First off, threatening a wittnes or suspect like he does and he'd be suspended in a second for being unprofessional. Secondly, every episode Caine is 100% correct as to the perpetrator is early in the episode. He never makes a mistake or never does the evidence take him to another suspect. Also, it's hillarious how every suspect breaks down and admits the truth and tell how they went about whatever crime that they are accussed of the second Caine confronts them. Never do the suspects deny anything(real life) or ask for a lawyer.

This show is so bad me and my roomates made it into a drinking game. Everytime David Caruso takes off or puts on his sunglasses take a drink. Everytime he threatens someone take two drinks. Gurantee you'll be having a good time at the end of the hour.