I bought the Entourage series on a Gold Box Deal--a whim.  I don't have HBO and had barely even heard of the show, so I had nothing to compare to.  The show starts off in Season 1 as a great watch.  The cast is memorable and humorous, and the story line is pretty easy to follow however I'd be hard pressed to stay attentive week to week after a 30 minute stint for each show.  I tell my friends who've never heard of it that it's a male version of Sex in the City--but not really.  This show doesn't focus on relationships, rather an actor and his brother, cousin, and best friend and their "lavish" life in California.  Vince, the main character plays the excellent role in being a "not so perfect" actor who in the end tries to stay true to his original game of what he was born to do--acting.  Drama, his brother is absolutely hilarious.  Check out the "Saigon" episode; I still chuckle at him in Walsh's hotel room.

Turtle and Eric's characters are true staples in the show. They do more in providing the assists for the humor rather than being the punchlines themselves.

Ari is the absolute quiet thunder in this entire show.  He starts out as "Vince's Agent", but is really so much more to the group.  His antics and quips are the most hilarious.  His funniest line (to me) is in one of the episodes where he's trying to land Vince the huge movie.  (I'm not into spoilers)

Watching all the shows together lets you see the evolvement of all the actors.  While Seasons 1-3 had some great runs and a nice ending, Season 4 actually kind of milked itself.  I've got all of one sentence to say about Season 4 (out of them all).  Although it had the same amount of humor as the others--it did evolve in that sense, the actual plot took 12 shows to hash out!  The show kinds of leaves you to carry out your own assessments:  Turtle isn't working with anyone since Saigon and Drama probably isn't cooking because he's so busy with the new show.  There's more, but I won't dwell.  I don't plan to watch Season 5 until it finishes, then I'll probably download it from iTunes or something to that effect.

As I say with all movies and DVD packs, it's better to wait until their cheaper or on sale.