Disney has been most generous of late in guiding their customers toward the future by releaseing titles such as Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs as reasonably priced combo packs that include both the DVD and Blu-ray discs.  Since there are many who long to make the switch to high definition but haven't quite committed, these sets allow them to enjoy the experience on standard DVD for the time being, and then when they finally do go Blu-ray, they won't have to re-purchase the disc...they'll already be set, and finally see what they've been missing.

It's the Blu-ray I want to pay more attention to, because if you think this movie has looked glorious on past digital issues (and it certainly has), you are in for a revelation that will leave you smiling and speechless.  If you didn't know, you'd never EVER believe this was a seven-decades plus old movie.  It is absolutely pristine and spotless in a new 1080p transfer.  The colors are more vibrant and beautiful than ever before, and all the incredible detail of Walt Disney's imaginative direction renders through with a clarity I would dare say not seen since 1937 movie screens.

After a quick comparison, I cannot tell you that the effort Disney put into the DVD presentation is worth any less than four stars in its own right, but such a comparison is inherently unfair.  Or, at least it WOULD be, except that Disney gives us both in one package.  The DVD is clean, clear, and colorful, and will certainly make fans without Blu-ray exceedingly happy...but again, Disney uses Blu-ray technology to the absolute apex of its capabilities here.  There's nothing like seeing a true cinematic classic looking more stunning than ever before, and Disney and Blu-ray teamed together offer fans nothing less than that kind of experience.

Also, with this combo pack, you can opt for the experience your home theatre allows.  With both discs, you can experience the film with a restored original mono soundtrack...intriguing for purists, but for me, you have to go with one of the digital surround remixes.  On the DVD, you get the terrific Dolby Digital 5.1 mix, and on the Blu-ray, a brand new uncompressed DTS 7.1 offering.

Disney's use of technology for these new mixes is respectful; they don't try and create an experience that Walt never intended, but by opening up the dynamic range, giving the bigger scenes a little more space on the front and middle stages, and using the subwoofer to add a little more menace to the scarier scenes, the original experience is not lost, but simply enhanced.  And the musical orchestrations sound more vivid and lush than ever before...a wonderful audio presentation!

Going from Platinum to Diamond in status makes me wonder if there are enough precious and rare materials in the world for future Disney editions...but no matter.  This Diamond Edition Blu-ray/DVD combo pack offers hours and hours of fun, informative and interactive features.  I'm sure to miss a few, so forgive me, but I will try to be as complete and organized as I can.

With either disc one (DVD) or disc two (Blu-ray), you can enjoy a commentary with animation historian John Canemaker, featuring archival clips of the late great Walt Disney offering his thoughts on his breakthrough achievement.  There is also a new music video for "Someday My Prince Will Come" from Disney Channel star Tiffany Thornton, plus a sneak peak at the studio's next big offering The Princess and the Frog.

The second Blu-ray disc offers some Family Play games through BD LIVE...you can play alone, or you can challenge others to beat your scores.  "Jewel Jumble" is a neat twist on stacking games like Tetris, while "Mirror Mirror" will show you which princess you're most like...I opted not to play that one.  "What Do You See?" challenges you as to how fast you can recognize a blurry image coming into focus.

A very cool and very new extra is the archival look at a film that was never made: "Snow White Returns".  Using recently discovered artwork and notes, we can get a feel of what a planned but ultimately scrapped sequel might have been like.  Some classic extras are here as well...two animated scenes that were never completed and cut from the film, including the famous soup bowl song and the dwarfs building a bed together.  Enhanced View mode fills the black bars at the left and right (this film is in its original 1.33:1 mode) with some lovely and comparable artwork from Toby Bluth.

The third disc, also for Blu-ray, contains more bonus features from the previous Platinum Edition DVD, including one of my favorite interactive games, "Dopey's Wild Mine Ride".  Can you race through the mines and gather your friends in time to save Snow White?  There is also a look back at Walt Disney's original Hyperion Studios, the retrospective Snow White featurette "The One That Started it All", a look at the voice talents, the "Disney Through the Decades" featurette, and the "Heigh-Ho" karaoke sing-along.

A genuine classic has gotten the kind of treatment high definition fans would hope for, but thanks to this Diamond Edition combo pack, all fans of Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs can enjoy a beautiful and feature-packed presentation.  Then, for those who don't have Blu-ray and eventually get one, they will have the chance to see what they've been missing, and wonder why they waited so long!