Staggering  out of the movie theatre under the influence of disgust and anger, I turned to my wife and asked: "What is the basic difference between Ken Lay, Jeff Skilling, Andy Fastow and Osama bin Laden?"  I answered: "bin Laden speaks Arabic. Otherwise, they all share analogous ideologies and a disregard for American lives."

Alex Gibney's documentary film "Enron: The Smartest Guys in the Room," chronicles one of the biggest American corporate scandals stemming from a series of well planned  frauds.  But it also gets us close to seeing, hearing, and smelling the cosmically egotistical criminals who think nothing of stealing scores of millions of dollars from their company, the employees, and citizens whose lives had depended on the energy that the Enron thugs stole from them in California.

The scenes from the U.S. Congressional energy investigating subcommittee is woven together with commentary by authors Bethany McLean and Peter Elkind who had written the book upon which this film is based. The associations of Presidents George H.W. and Dubya Bush, and Vice President Dick Cheney (and Arnold Schwartzenegger) with the Enron crooks are alluded to but never really defined clearly. The implicaiton is that the Bush gang  had a hand in supporting the Enron crowd -- especially in deregulating oil and gas -- so that they could turn their millions into billions of dollars by the "magic" of false accounting.

Most of the commentary was either by the crooks recorded on video or authors, or an Enron whistle blower and government officials involved in prosecuting these men. However, there was very little commentary presented in the movie from the 20,000 Enron employees who had lost everything or shareholders who similarly had lost their retirement nest egg because of the Enron fraud. In other words, the film mainly presented the points of view of the Enron criminals, their accomplices, their critics and Congressional investigators. This film rarely lets us hear from the "little people." In a sense, that is what stoked the hubris of the Enron gang:  the  "little people" simply didn't count.

A worthwhile and necessary film for all Americans to see. This is not the end of the scandal for which all of us wind up paying.