This documentary is basically one guy telling us how the world is going to end from running out of oil. I think for most people, this documentary would be hard to watch. Most of the footage is in some dark basement with Michael Ruppert sitting on a cheap chair, smoking a cigarette. It is a monologue.

The thing is, Ruppert is not completely wacked out. He is right about the phenomena of peak oil. I do not agree with Ruppert in how he thinks the impact of peak oil is going to play out.

Oil wells peak in production rate about when they reach their half empty point, and then the rate that oil came be extracted from the well steadily decreases. This theory was presented by King Hubbert in the fifties. It is now an accepted theory.

What is important to understand about peak oil is not how one well peaks, but how the world aggregate production rate will peak and when. If we got all our oil from one well, and we had no other alternative energy sources, then Ruppert would be right about his predictions. But some wells are on the increase, some wells are on the decrease, and some wells could be on their peak. How the aggregate production rate decreases after the peak is reached, and how fast it decreases will determine how bad things will play out. The thing is, opinions differ wildly on when we will hit peak oil and the rate production rates will decrease. Some say we have already hit it. Some say it will happen around 2020. Some say production will peak and then level off. The thing is, most agree peak oil will happen, if it has not already happened.

Ruppert does not address how we will adapt to peak oil in a fair and optimistic manner. He does not address how we can transition to other fossil fuels like coal for electricity production, and natural gas for transportation. He does not accurately address the potential of clean energy like tidal, solar and wind. There is enough energy just from the ocean to meet our energy demands, but it will not be as cheap as oil to produce. Ruppert does not address how energy conservation will make a big difference. Innovation will make a big difference and we will dramatically reduce our energy consumption because energy will be so expensive. Things like LED lighting is right around the corner. LED lighting will make a huge difference. Telecommuting will become common place. That will make a huge difference. I think hydrogen powered cars are the wave of the future. Hydrogen powered cars are very efficient if you look at the total efficiency of utilizing an energy source. Internal combustion engines are only about 20% efficient. Hydrogen powered cars will make a huge difference and allow use of clean energy. If you are a pessimist, it is easy to look at how peak oil is going to arrive and then cause economic collapse. I think we will adapt.
-- Begin Update 7/13/2010 --
We should have plenty of natural gas for transportation needs. Why wouldn't we just combust it for cars instead of extracting hydrogen from natural gas and using hydrogen powered cars? From what I have heard, extracting hydrogen from natural gas and then using in a fuel cell is actually more efficient that directly combusting in an internal combustion engine. It may even be better for carbon emmissions but I'm not sure. That's why I think hydrogen powered cars are the wave of the future, because hydrogen can be produced from a mixture of energy sources.
-- End  Update 7/13/2010 --

I am really disappointed though how there does not seem to be an open discussion about peak oil. Why do I have to watch a documentary with some alarmist smoking in a dark room to learn about peak oil. One could argue that peak oil is the most important issue facing Americans. It will happen. We have to adapt. It will take action to change our ways. So we need to wake up. And I wish there would be less videos like Ruppert's, because it makes peak oil seem illegitimate.

Ruppert does try to predict how the future will be after peak oil. He says we will have to grow our own food. In the documentary, he addresses how much energy our agriculture industry requires to produce and distribute food. Growing our own food will not work. Even if you had a great garden, it will only give you certain kinds of foods, with too much production occurring in short periods of time. It will not work during the winter for most. Ruppert misses something that will change. Jet air travel will come to an end. There is no substitute for the amount of power you can get from aviation fuel in a jet engine. Jet air travel will only be for the rich when oil hits $250 a barrel. Propeller airplanes will make a come back.
-- Begin Update 7/13/2010 --
With a little research on the web, I was able to discover the US military is researching alternative fuels for jet engines. They have tested a 50-50 combination of JP-8 jet fuel with natural gas based synthetic fuel. So it seems jet air travel could still be affordable after peak oil.
-- End  Update 7/13/2010 --

Peak oil could be one of the best things to happen to America. Millions of jobs will be created in energy production because we will be importing less oil. We will have to produce energy locally. Manufacturing will come back to America due to the energy cost of shipping goods around the world. Peak oil could make America a producing nation again, lowering our trade deficit. I say peak oil...bring it on!