A Thousand Clowns was released as Viet Nam was beginning to rage around us. Kennedy had been shot, Martin Luther King and Bobby Kennedy were next, Wallace was giving out medals and pay raises to Bull Connor INC., ready also to be shot himself.

 But this little film is about giving up on protest of any kind; and Jason Robards' "protest" is  so numbingly Lilliputian compared to what was beginning to emerge in this capitalistic nightmare, that he will see as a dream of light and magic. This character is deep only at the surface; Robards' odyssey  is about trying not to find work. EDven this is bad plotting in 1965. Furthermore, welfare is after him, and they are seen as sane.They suggest that if you don't work you might not get to live,and the implications are there, and heeded to by Robards' character as anm option!

The perfomance of Robards' son is so irritating, as he is forced to mouth the endless cliches about his father's need to be "Dad," and finally, embrace the perfection that work offers.

 Only Barbara Harris survives this Fascist film through her art, specifically, her deliveries,  her asides, and her eyes, that keep blinking as she hears the leaden speeches delivered by Robards or the son or another "hip" character. She sort of knows this is a dead zone, a cemetery for thinkers.

 But looking around the USA at this time, as I did, it is not at all unbelievable that this stupid play had audiences rooting for it for years. It says so much about why we needed the 60s counter culture, and it tells us about how Viet Nam happened.  The film never stops talking about $$ and the need to dominate the impulse to live simply, without the millions. It also points to the need to profit from everyone else. And now we do, an obvious example, China.

 A few more items: The feminist issues are non-excistent here, there are no gay people, and yet the film wants us to see how comprehensive the positive treatment is of everyone everywhere, with a few billion omissions.

Jason Robards made the great O'Neil film in 1962 with Katharine Hepburn, "Long Day's Journey Into Night," tht takes place in New London, Conn at the trun of the century. This film has more authenticity than a thousand plays like " A Thousand Clowns. Don't Avoid this.Wed still should watch this as we do "Triumph of The Will."