I hate to say this, but no matter what perspective I take on this movie, I just don't like it.

I am an obsessive PotO Phan, so this movie in regards to being a tragic tale of romance and passion was a huge disapointment. It turned out to be completely lust on Erik's part, and quite well taken care of at that (He didn't really need Christine). Before watching it the first time, knowing it was a blood-and-guts slasher I decided NOT to make any comparisons of the romances portrayed in any other version, but I couldn't help but feel extremely dissapointed in that aspect.

As a horror, this movie hits near the top of most gory movies I have seen, up there with Texas Chainsaw Massacre, but the story istelf and the characters had little to no developement. The one part I enjoyed was when the Phantom acted like the Phantom is supposed to, enraptured in the gentle embrace of Christine's voice (of which there was very little); but right after that he went out and randomly killed some more people.

All this movie was was a lot of blood and guts with a famous title on it to make it seem better than it was.

I have to admit the effects where amazing, and the makeup immaculate, however, in real life there would be a lot of scar tissue over a wound like that, and it would not bleed buckets of fresh blood everytime he aired his wounds. Especially since it was so... clean when he wore "makeup."

The time-paradoxes really bothered me too, as does the fact that very very little is explained at all, such as WHY he's obsessed with Christine, WHY he goes all ninja in the alleyway, and WHY he goes through the painful process of reconstructing his face every day instead of just wearing a freakin mask.

I liked the red death costume. I didn't like the red death mask. But that's just me, and has nothing to do with the rating of the film. I didn't like it, but you might. At any rate, if you're looking to expand your experiances or maybe just your collection of the Phantom, I would reccomend it, if you can get a good deal on it.