I was lucky enough to catch this special on HBO and laughed so hard, I cried & my sides hurt! A good kind of hurt, of course. Eddie Izzard being a transvestite really has nothing to do with his comedy because he is smart, international and hilarious and his being transvestite is really quite secondary to his intelligent style of comedy. He does have that kind of "British" humor that's dry and some people may not get it.

Pascal Meunier (see his other reviews for a sample of his tastes) on a previous review on this page said this wasn't funny & that Izzard "babbles & pisses on everything." Talk about inaccurate!!! Negative reviews only get "not helpful" when there is a lopsided or un-defended attack on a person or product. If well written with a substantiated argument, a negative review can be quite helpful. His complaint was that he got this DVD on the strength of misleading reviews. I will give a full & complete review for any other prospective buyers

Firstly, Izzard doesn't "piss" on everything- he is an observer of everything. One of the truest & best observations he makes is the one that people like Pol Pot and Stalin killed people in their own country & basically got away with it because, as he said, "we're kinda fine with that, we've been trying to kill you for years!" but of course, Hitler, silly man, killed people next door and we won't stand for that after a while. Like most comedy (for example Chris Rock saying when you date people they don't meet you, they meet your representative,) Izzard's comedy is funny because it is observations of things we all know are TRUE. I couldn't help notice that Robin Williams, who has a similar style of fast, smart comedy, was one of the producers of this show. I would guess HE thinks he's funny. As for a comparison to George Carlin, one of my personal favorites, that's really quite useless because everyone's comedy is different. I'm a big Robert Schimmel fan & his comedy is generally crude, sexual and outrageous- outrageously funny, but different. That is why there are so many different types of comedians, something for everyone. I guess Eddie is an intellectuals' comedian- and what's wrong with that? Isn't it about time?

He has funny jokes about Henry VIII who basically shagged women & killed them, about the Anglican Church being too lenient and offering "cake or death" in their theoretical inquisition. The international clout of Scooby-Doo and the "Falstaff" comparison is great. I never go to an action flick at the theatre eating popcorn with out thinking of his "Room with a View of Hell, staircase of Satan!" Or his hilarious take on the Heimlich Maneuver or Englebert Humperdink/Jerry Dorsey and his name. There is just so much in this that is funny, and now that I've been watching it while writing my review - he isn't pissing on everything- to the contrary, he's amazingly positive actually- especially compared to most comedians (for example Carlin)!

This is a great comedian and a wonderful stand-up concert that you will watch over & over- luckily, as another reviewer said, it gets funnier each time you watch it. 6 stars out of 5!!!!!