Everyone has to start somewhere. Obviously Godard had no budget for the film [he makes a highly ostensible comment about the lack of budget for the film in the film], but really, the ideas here are horrible. Maybe this would do for mediocre film student [ok, top notch film student...but I don't mean that as a compliment].

You can see some techniques of his later films emerging in this film, so perhaps it has some appeal to hardcore Godard fans who are just head-over-heels in love with his work.

Otherwise, you will spend an hour and a half listening to poor dialogue that tries to be an existentialist novel, and fails miserably [think pre-teen Ayn Rand], poor jokes [are childish sex jokes funny in France?], and an incredibly bland story.

The camera work, for the budget, is probably the best part of the film, and the acting is not horrific. There are a very, very few scenes which are almost funny [for example: when Madame Victoria claims Arthur's gun is not loaded, and Arthur calmly shoots a live round off in front of her], and perhaps watching Arthur and Franz act out scenes from random Westerns at-will is endearing to some more then to I.

All attempts to be funny, clever, abstract, etc... all fall so short of the mark as to ultimately leave a very dirty taste in the mouth. But, who knows how much of this is due to the script as opposed to Godard's doing. If it was scripted this way, then no one in the world could salvage such a poor script, and Godard never should have chosen to work with it. [The final scene of Arthur near the end, the "Shootout", may be the only redeeming scene in the film, if you take it as a big joke; a play on the absurdity of how big hollywood films always, despite insane odds, have the "good guys" win, and the "bad guys" lose; Godard is, if nothing else in this film, somewhat good at "doing what we're all thinking".]

All in all, you are far better off with 1. A real novel. 2. A later Godard film.

But, there are worse ways to spend an hour and a half I guess...this is still miles ahead of anything you'll find in today's Cinemas. If you want something palpable, ostensible, cliched, and mildly funnily to "zone out" on, I guess this is just the film for the night!