It doesn't surprise me at all that "Catwoman" has been met with such hostility from critics and fans alike. They did change her name, background, and pretty much everything affiliated with the famed comic book character of Batman lore. However, these things certainly do not reflect the quality of the movie.

 For those of you unfamiliar with the plot, Patience Philips (Halle Berry) is a meek employee for a cosmetics corporation known as Hedare. The company is run by megalomaniac Georges Hedare (Lambert Wilson) and his villainous but beautiful wife Laurel (Sharon Stone). When Patience stumbles across a conspiracy within the company regarding a new anti-aging beauty cream, she is promptly flushed out of life. A mysterious Egyptian Mau cat whom Patience helped comes to her aid and resurrects her, bestowing upon her the sleek abilities of a cat. Patience then must come to terms with her new persona while tackling the Hedare Corporation and her love interest, Tom Lone (Benjamin Bratt).

 This film exhibits all the perfect qualities of a fun superhero type film. Many people have considered "Spiderman 2" the ultimate comic book film. Well, every aspect of "Spiderman 2" is present "Catwoman". Patience must deal with the duality of her life, her good side and bad side, and also must find a happy medium between her old self and new self. This film is all about accepting oneself for who you are and empowering the freedom that accompanies acceptance, even though the outside world may not take a liking to you. Patience also walks the fine line of good and bad, which is something new to the superhero bit. You don't see Spiderman stealing expensive jewelry, but Catwoman certainly has no problem with it. This aspect makes Patience more of an anti-heroine, someone who isn't necessarily a good guy in the traditional sense, but still exudes a charisma that makes them likable.

 The special effects are great, the fight scenes are splendidly choreographed, and the exhilirating score by Klaus Badelt adds a very rhythmic drive to the already thrilling film.

 The lack of historical accuracy as far as Catwoman goes gives this film an edge. We saw Selina Kyle played brilliantly by Michelle Pfeiffer in "Batman Returns". It would have been out of place to start completely over with Selina. She had her time out as Catwoman, and now it's Patience's turn. This is Catwoman's fresh start. Selina is still prominent in the comic books, but that doesn't mean that she can be the only Catwoman. The non-traditional outfit also fits marvelously. It gives Catwoman an edge. She is a new-found woman showcasing her primal side, which can very much include sexuality. Her outfit is indicative of her metamorphosis. If one were to transform from lovable loser to feisty feline it would definately include a darker, edgier, sexier look. One final note on the costume: regardless of what some have said, there is nothing pornographic about this film. Sexuality is prevalent, but that is a very far cry from flat out porn.

 Summer seasons tend to run rampant with strong, superhero-type films with very powerful leading characters. In a summer populated by Hugh Jackman, Brad Pitt, and Tobey Maguire it is overly refreshing to see Halle Berry thrown into the mix, not to mention Sharon Stone. This has been my favorite summer film. It's all about acceptance, freedom, and power, which are all very real aspects of life that we all could learn to handle. "Catwoman" does the perfect job of showing these life lessons in a very fun way. Meow!