Some actors were meant to do voice over work.  Take Eddie Murphy for instance; his voice is the perfect tone of comedic brilliance to lend itself heavily to the animated picture.  You can pencil in David Spade right next to him as far as I am concerned, because Spade has the perfect brand of sarcastic delivery that makes a cartoon all the more entertaining.  Yes, David Spade elevates `The Emperor's New Groove' from light fluffy fun into a hilarious romp through the jungle and catapults it to the top of my `Favorite Animated Films' list.

The film is not the deepest bucket in the Disney shed; like I said, it's light and fluffy; but when it comes to delivering the goods (as in laugh after laugh) it succeeds on a far grander scale than a lot of Disney films do.

The film follows young emperor Kuzco, a spoiled brat of a man/child who takes what he wants at whoever's expense.  He is self centered and greedy and quite obnoxious and this does not translate into a happy kingdom.  One day he calls in Pacha, a gentle villager, to explain that his family has to leave their home immediately in order to make way for Kuzco's new water park.  So starts a series of events that proves to change to course of Kuzco's life.  He makes enemies with Pacha the moment he needs him most; for it is shortly after their meeting that his ex-employee Yzma turns him into a llama and dumps him in the forest to die.

`The Emperor's New Groove' has a nice moral about learning to give and be generous and look out for the well being of others, but for the most part this is here to entertain, and entertain it does.

David Spade is hilarious as the ill fated Kuzco.  His brand of humor brilliantly captures his characters predicament and helps create a hilarious atmosphere for the films entirety.  John Goodman has such a lovably sincere tone in his voice, like a teddy bear, and this is a perfect compliment to Pacha's character development.  Not only does Yzma look hysterical but Eartha Kitt was brilliantly cast as her vocal star.  Evil has never been this funny.  Patrick Warburton is the perfect compliment to Kitt's Yzma, his portrayal of the dim-witted hunk Kronk being one of the films major highlights.

Visually there is a lot to laugh at here, each scene feeling fresh and primed for your enjoyment.  I can't think of a single error or flaw.  I mean, honestly, it could have been deeper or more profound (this is Disney) but sometimes we just want to sit back and laugh.

`The Emperor's New Groove' brings on those laughs; heavy!