OK, so every performance of Salome or Madame Butterfly will never compare to the productions at Santa Fe Opera in the 1966 season....yes, they were my first live opera performances. Ah and Tosca! But, life goes on, and True Art Lives Forever and is forever reinterpreted for the next generation. Yes I was a great fan of ABBA, and had heard of 'Chess' but was not familiar with any of the songs except 'One night in Bankok'. Imagine then, last year flipping through channels, I stopped on the local PBS station to see Adam Pascal singing 'Pity the child'. Love at first sight and sound. Then Edina singing 'Nobody's on nobody's side'. Then Edina Menzel with 'Heaven Help my Heart'. Then Josh Groban and 'Anthem'. My God, I thought, where has this music been? Where have I been?  So I waited for the DVD, ordered on Amazon, got it about 5 days, and showed it to my best friend. We both sat in amazement as the show unfolded. Tears, laughter, amazement and joy are what this production gives you in 245 minutes. You will see a Josh Groban you never knew. You will hear Edina Menzel and Kerry Ellis and the chorus in emotional duels, the dancers punctuating the action; a spectacular orchestra - rock infused. And Adam Pascal steals the show and makes you love him in spite of himself. Yes I bought the CD also, for the car. I then found the 1984 concept album/CD used from an Amazon dealer. But except for Elaine page I was disappointed. So you see, all is relative. I have shown the dvd to several friends, pop, rock, classical alike found it spectacular...I usually show it without any introduction, and then after the first act (Josh's Anthem) tell them they have been listening to ABBA...by then they are hooked. I have had to explain to the 40- somethings 'the cold war', Bobby Fisher, world Chess, etc for context. I have watched and listened for more than a year - countless viewings on my bigscreen lcd/surround sound, and it remains in my car cd player. Everytime I hear/see something new. I am obsessed with the music; it is complex and classical in compostition, motifs recurring and reprise for several numbers (pity the child); crank up the volume, and you will be astounded. For the Chess old-timers: open your minds and ears. This performance was given twice in London; I can't imagine the joy, but you can see it in the audience.