I've lost count of the number of times I've watched this movie (in the theatre and on vcr but not the dvd), but it's probably at least ten.  That in itself should be some kind of recommendation, especially since I haven't come close to watching any other movie as much.  Why did I find it so appealing?  It wasn't really the story, the script, the acting, or a lot of other things.  Mainly, I think it was the way it looked and sounded, the way it was filmed with images that could have been still photos, but not pretty postcard-like pictures, but shots of gasoline storage tanks, shipyards, junkyards, railroad tracks, warehouses, a couple of horses and a gypsy wagon, the beauty of the industrial wasteland, the orange sun through the smog and palm trees, the title credits in brilliant electric green and red, accompanied by Wang Chung's "City of Angels" which reminds me of Peter Gunn on meth.  The soundtrack for this move is perfect and a major contribution to its overall impact.  And it's not that there isn't a basically interesting story line.  William Peterson-- trying to be a little too cool at times in his tight jeans and cowboy boots-- nevertheless is pretty cool and in his thirty-something prime here as he plays a rogue Secret Service agent operating outside the law to do whatever it takes to capture a counterfeiter, played by Willem Dafoe who also is in his early prime, who killed Peterson's partner in cold blood.  There are several great chase scenes, both in cars and on foot, both as pursuer and being pursued, and just like The French Connection, there is a scene where a car is chasing a train.  Friedkin must have a thing for trains.  There is much that could have been better about the script, however.  The black and female characters are portrayed unflatteringly.  The fight scenes are stupidly unrealistic.  I didn't like the end at all.  Having the hero Peterson shot and killed while trying to arrest Dafoe was a boldly honest touch, but then having Dafoe killed was a cop out.  He should have escaped, since he was a skilled artist and counterfeiter who could have easily forged ID and simply made his own money.  Nevertheless, the poetic visual language of the movie is the overriding factor.  The locations of various semi-cheap bars and restaurants and the way even a sleazy place like Shipwreck Joey's Cabaret topless bar was shot in the early morning sunlight and fresh blue sky made it look good.  It also helped to have several beautiful women, great performances from Dean Stockwell and John Turturro, etc., etc.  I loved it.