Freeze a film.  Remove a clip from that film.  Enlarge it.  Frame it.
Some films contain images that stand alone as art -- provoking a sense of wonder, evil, romance, adventure, etc.  Several classics come to mind:

Scarlet O'Hara standing at the train station surrounded by the dead and dying.
The monster's meeting his bride in THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN.
Marilyn Monroe standing on the subway grating in THE SEVEN YEAR ITCH.
Charlie Chaplin's tramp riding the gears of the huge machine in MODERN TIMES.
Marion Crane meeting Mrs. Bates in the shower in PSYCHO.

Some more modern films also contain them as well:

The little Jewish girl in the red coat in SCHINDLER'S LIST.
The silent train ride of oil man and his "adopted" baby son in THERE WILL BE BLOOD.
A new species of bird in UP.
A slow motion inmate of SHUTTER ISLAND warning Teddy Daniels with a silent "shhh."
Friends holding hands preparing for certain demise by trash crusher in TOY STORY 3.

Images which inspire memory, discussion, emotion long after the film is over.  For a case of images that tell an amazing story, look no further than the strange classic THE NIGHT OF THE HUNTER.  I can think of no other film which evokes such hypnotic beauty and childlike wonder, sadness, and fear simply by its images.

Some examples:
Shelly Winters trapped in a deadly marriage and in an attic bedroom with the shadows sealing her in a light and darkness coffin.
The dark terrors of a childhood bedroom lit only by the streetlamp outside.
Spiders,lizards, and other creepy-crawlies made enormous by the forshortening of the movie camera as two children escape on their little boat.
"Chi-i-i-l-l-dren!" as the deranged minister calls to the youngsters in the shadowy and evil cellar.
A beautiful girl toddler's mouth watering at the banquet laid before her which she cannot eat.
An old lady with a gun, singing and rocking, waiting, and waiting for evil to come to her house.
And the most effective of all?
A dead newly-wedded bride submerged in a car, strapped in, her throat slit into another gaping mouth while the currents play her hair into impossibly long strands.

I had to pause to wipe away goose bumps as I recalled that last one.

WATCH THIS FILM.  IT DESERVES TO BE SEEN.  YOU NEED TO HAVE IT AS PART OF YOUR FILM LEXICON!