Indochine is an epic about the French misadventure in Indochina.  Eliane (a still stunning Catherine Deneuve) is a Frenchwoman who owns a rubber plantation in Vietnam.  She loves her adopted country and her adopted Vietnamese daughter Camille (a luminous Linh Dan Pham).  Trouble starts when Eliane has a fling with Jean Baptiste (Vincent Perez), a young naval officer.  In one of several improbable plot twists, Jean-Baptiste rescues Camille during a street riot, and she falls hopelessly in love with him.  To separate them, Eliane pulls strings to get Jean-Baptiste reassigned to the country's wild northern coast.

Camille runs away to find him, and in the process sees firsthand that the French colonial edifice is propped up by the suffering of the country's peasants.  She and Jean-Baptiste unite, only to be sundered.  Camille turns away from her mother and her mother's way of life, joining the Communists in their successful efforts to drive the French out of Indochina.

The script poses some interesting issues about the moral ambiguities of colonialism, but there might be more brittle irony and Gallic anguish than those from less self-dramatizing cultures want to watch.  While the cinematography captures the lush, mysterious beauty of Vietnam, there are too many long, lingering nature shots. Director Regis Wargnier could have easily chopped forty five minutes worth of travelogue scenery and reaction shots out of this film.

Speaking of culture, with the exception of Jean-Baptiste, the French businessmen, policemen, and administrators never stop believing they're in Indochina to uphold the values of a superior civilization. It's as though Wargnier wants us to sympathize with Eliane and her compatriots and mourn the passing of their colonial way of life.  Indochine is shot through with the same moral confusion as the American movie Gone with the Wind (to which it bears more than a passing resemblance.)  Whether you're a plucky woman on a rubber plantation in Vietnam, or a plucky girl on a cotton plantation in Georgia, exploiting other humans for economic gain is an evil practice.  Using pretty actors in pretty scenery to spin the exploitation story doesn't mitigate the evil, only makes it more difficult to discern.

Two better films about the French experience in Vietnam are the French film, The Scent of Green Papayas and Phillip Noyce's adaptation of Graham Greene's The Quiet American.