I thought this movie was incredible the first time I saw it - I love films that DON'T end the way you expect them to, that don't follow the safe and true path, so if you don't already own the videotape or the original DVD release, that alone is a great reason to buy (or at least rent) this new DVD.
We'll start off there...
1. It's simply a great movie.  A modern classic.  The screenplay is just brilliant.  The characters are developed and complex.  Screenwriter Walker hit upon a great idea and ran with it.  (And I am bitterly jealous.)  Even if New Line were able to get away with making it into just another cheesy cop flick, the idea would have been intriguing.  Walker went the extra mile, though, and pushed himself to try new twists and turns.  Kudos to him and directory David Fincher, Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman and everyone else who pushed to keep the plot's integrity.  The acting is superbe, Gweneth Paltrow is a true angel and Kevin Spacey (yes, lovably average-looking Kevin Spacey from "American Beauty") just resonates with evil.
2. It's not just my assumption that New Line tried to "emsculate" (my word) the "SE7EN" script; it's on the record now with the "Stars" commentary track.  It's never been easy to get a movie made when it cuts against the grain (just ask Terry Gilliam).  Studio suits are notorious whimps when it comes to trying out new stuff, as Fincher, Pitt and Freeman attest to.  Though the suits may not think so, I think the director and actors are being nice - they don't name so many names.  But they do talk about the battle with the studio to keep the picture from being watered down and turned into just another blas&eacute; film version of a TV cop show.  Plus you get to feel like one of their buds as they talk fairly candidly about what was going on during production, their thoughts and feelings about the story, etc.  It is particularly interesting to list to Morgan Freeman analyse his character's psyche and hear how he came to certain acting choices - a gem for other actors.  The "Stars" audio track is often quite funny, too, as with Fincher and Pitt's observations about how the dead GLUTTONY guy was "enhanced" (again my word) to recompense the actor for having enduring hours of make-up and playing a stiff.
3. Speaking of commentaries, the "Sound" commentary track with Fincher, Author Richard Dyer, composer Howard Shore and sound designer Ren Klyce is an enlightening treat, one I've never experienced before (though I don't own every DVD out there).  They explain the complex process of applying the different continuous sounds of the city and music in a digestible fashion.  It'a fascinating, too, to watch the movie with the background noise brought to the fore and the dialogue and up-front sound effects cut out.  Very surreal.
And tying into that...
4. The sound has been remixed for the home theater, and it will blow you away.  There's background noise everywhere, just like in a real city.  It's crisp, it's clear, it's there in your face (or rather your ear, if you prefer).  Why, their creation is alive!  It's aliiiiive!
5. The "Story" commentary track with Fincher, Dyer, screenwriter Andrew Kevin Walker, editor Richard Francis-Bruce and New Line production president Michael De Luca breaks the story down piece by piece.  This track alone should be a film school student's dream come true; it dissects the movie nearly scene by scene.  Wannabe screenwriters and movie directors should listen to this track over and over again.
6. The picture quality on this new DVD cannot be overstated.  It has been transferred from the original negative and it is simply sumptuous.  It's not a post card, mind you, and it's not meant to be, but it no longer has that "ER" faded feeling to it, either.  For example, the all important color RED really JUMPS OUT out at you from the darkness now, adding to the creepiness of the moment.  When something is supposed to be disgusting, again like the dead GLUTTONY guy, it is.  It's just so real and vivid, like you're there in the moment.  It's unlikely that many movies will ever get the loving treatment "SE7EN" has received for this new DVD release, and it's a shame.  This makes those movies that have been rushed out onto DVD to make a quick buck (and there are plenty of them) look that much crappier.  (Ever see "Splash" on DVD?)  That's why people who love movies, and not greedy MBA schmucks, should run movie studios.
7. Although I've watched the movie's original opening (I think they could have kept it in, but with the new vibrating title sequence), there's still a ton of stuff on the second supplemental DVD I haven't yet had time to explore.  I have the "Fight Club" DVD, though, and even though that's a different studio (Fox), I am confident that David Fincher will not let me down, so my 7th reason for getting this DVD two-pack is all the fun exploring all the extra stuff, such as extended scenes, the fourth "Picture" commentary track, and veiwing the dead GLUTTONY guy frame by agonizing frame.  (If that's your thing, Sicko.)
This film may actually convince me to put off my mother's heart transplant so I can buy a DVD-ROM.
(Shut up, Mom!  No one lives forever!  Geez.)