My first reaction to this film was: "This isn't a Mission Impossible movie". Okay, so, it has all the trademarks of MI, such as the masks, the messages the self-destruct and such, but in reality, this film is just another action/adventure yarn in the James Bond mould.
Having said that, MI-2 is a brilliant film. My first reaction to seeing MI-2 was to go out and buy all of director John Woo's movies, because even if they are even a tenth as good as this, then surely they must be well worth watching. 
MI-2 has a very subtle thematic structure for a move of this genre and Woo seems to keep all the metonyms and such like as subtle as possible, so as not to detract from the narrative drive. So, top marks for direction and production.
Also, top marks for story and scripting because all the characters down to the smallest were three dimensional and totally believable. You come away from this movie really wanting to meet its protagonists because you feel you know them so well. 
While MI-2 is good in that all the characters are very well drawn and acted, although Ethan Hunt is a very different character to the one in the original MI movie. Gone is the loveable American boy grown up, and in its place is a James Bond wannabe - and this grates a little because with one Bond around, we don't really need another. Part of Hunt's charm in the original movie is his vulnerability, and this has been sadly expunged in this sequel in favor of a macho stereotype that, whilst well played and realized, has now become a cinematic clich&eacute;. 
All these niggles to one side, this is a very good action/adventure romp that leaves out all the Cold War legacies of the original and aims instead at the vagaries of capitalist greed verses the good of the human race. It really races along from one brilliantly conceived scene to another with a smoothness that does its makers credit and there are also some very good stunts and special effects that don't dominate the plot.
Overall, a very good buy - if you can, get the DVD version, because the extras on this are well worth the extra outlay.