Besides pretty much knowing the ending shortly after the beginning, the movie is just dumb. The characters for the most part are flat, the twists are unbelievable, and everything in the story lacks any reality. The incredibly high tech bank is run on a rack of pc equipment, but somehow is now run remotely and all of the maintenance terminals are missing. As if the full rack of gear needs some green screens in order to work. Sorry. Then of course the hackers need to do a home invasion in order to get physical access to the system. Hmm. And then they take several days, only to stumble when the maintenance terminals are missing. So, in a flash of brilliance Harrison Ford rips out the scanning bar from an all in one printer and plugs it into an ipod. And then tapes it to the screen so that they can capture the screen output. Because everyone knows most people like to watch numbers scroll on the screen and there is no such thing as cat or pipes. But, if you believe you can pull some stuff out of a printer and click it into your ipod and suddenly have a portable text capture device, well i guess the rest of it makes sense. but then, the wireless video cameras all had fisheye lenses. which makes sense because there is a wireless toy car that takes all of them out temporarily, since it obviously uses the same frequency. which we know because in the beginning of the movie it causes huge interference on a computer screen. since after all, most computer screens connect to the pcs using a wireless transmitter. that cable you plug in the back is really just an antenna. and you will believe that only bad guys get hurt when automatic weapons spray buildings and older computer guys can beat the crud out of younger armed psychopathic criminals with british accents. And that there is great wireless coverage throughout the empty areas of washington state, so that you can drive in a car with your laptop and have constant internet access.

so, what was there to like in the movie? hmm. it was consistent. nothing made much sense from the start to the end. oh, and one of the computer guys looked like he actually could be a computer guy. but of course he was killed for being nice. or in the way. or whatever.

watch bladerunner for the 15th time instead.