This simply is one of the most realistic expos&eacute;s ever on the publishing business. Having worked at several major publishers, I can tell you that thing pretty much work exactly as they appear in the film. When I worked for a house that shall remain unnamed (for fear that one of their editors will enter my garden during a moonlit party and rip out my throat while my guests are mixing martinis in the kitchen) we had several editors and authors contract various forms and variations of lycanthropy. Although to be fair, it is much more common to root out the symptoms early and simply give the person a sick day to go get a few shots, a flea dip, and an exorcism. I can't tell you how many times I had to explain to a growling coworker on the phone that simply howling into the receiver and loudly gnawing a raw deli pork chop was not enough to get them out of a deadline, and that they would be required to produce a doctor and/or shamans note to keep from being docked a day's pay. Between that and the dying mystics calling up wanting us to send around one or more of our editors to bite them so they could live eternally as a wolf I am amazed that any books ever got published. In my department alone we spent over $71,000 on amulets just to keep editors at their desks working - shaking, sweating and grunting incoherently while huge fangs jutted out of their lower jaws - but working. If you are thinking of working with a major publishing house, make sure to see this but be aware that it is a little dated.

Now, if you are a human possessed of a wolf spirit, you should be aware that most publishers daughters are a bit rebellious and willing to date the "lycanthropically challenged' (as Human Resources makes me call them) but the pairings are so common that there aren't that many good publishers daughters left. Frankly there are so many well-known "lycanthrope/publisher's relative" dating websites now that getting into publishing isn't even necessary anymore.

It is true that these days becoming possessed of an animal spirit is an easy way up the corporate publishing ladder. God knows after walking around in the woods for weeks trying to get bitten by even a mildly pissed off toad (with no luck) I finally gave up and just decided to be the best junior editor I could be. And you know what, I'm happier for that. The prowling packs of Wolf-editors might get a lot more play with the ladies at some of the company cocktail parties, but I just stick close to the stables where the chicks that are into horses hang out. Ha ha, those wolf jerks don't even bother hitting on equestrian chicks anymore.

And one more hint, sense of smell being what it is, bring an atomizer full of Cuero and lime to your next board meeting to spritz some of your coworkers with. It will really pay some off as any of their bosses with supernaturally enhanced senses will probably send them home for the day. That has gotten me ahead of a few rivals I can tell you!