For the Harry Potter fandom the wait for a new movie has been quite rewarding. Deathly Hallows Part I, has very successfully built up the suspense and the curiosity of the myriad of Potter fans, who will now wait restlessly for the final climax of the series. Followers of Harry Potter and his two friends, who have grown up simultaneously with the fictional trio, would have found the confusions, frustrations and rage of the stormy teenage years very familiar. The plot deals with a lot of real emotions, the emotions and aches of growing up, of being challenged. There is jealousy, anger and empathy--these human emotions mark a departure of Deathly from the bravado and mindless adventures of the earlier Potter flicks.

Harry, Ron and Hermione escape from the numerous attacks of the Death Eaters, let loose by Voldemort. The killing mission includes a high adrenalin chase of Harry and his seven look-alikes by the blood thirsty gang, which is a high point of the movie, visually. Potter and friends escape into the wilderness, but the Death Eaters' attacks never come to an end, and their goons capture and take them to the lair.

The trio escapes from the dungeon with the help of elf Dobby who pays with his life in the effort to release them. Dobby's death in the lap of Harry Potter brings about the most poignant scene in the movie. Now Harry and friends come to learn about the Deathly Hallows, based on some symbols and their intuitions. Hermione's reading of the story about the seven deathly hallows is accompanied by a symbolic enactment, which is very captivating and will remain deeply etched in the viewer's mind for long.

While the development of the plot is very intelligent and flawless, there are certain issues about the pace of the movie. Some parts drag, especially the lengthy discussions and deliberations. The many ifs and buts during the unfolding of the plot frustrate the viewer, used to the fast pace of the childhood adventure and games of the earlier movies. Most of the action takes place in the outside world, away from the all too familiar school premises. That's a welcome change.

Finally the fights and misunderstandings between Harry and Ron depict the coming of age of the chums.

The die-hard fans will surely revel in the movie despite the fact the director David Yates has taken a lot of liberty about his selection of which part of the book to include in the movie and which to leave out.  For the uninitiated, though, this random and non-linear selection may appear quite disjointed and confusing.

Chinmay Hota
Author of 'Hits and Misses'