This DVD was recommended to me by my very close friend "Tobes" from the UK. We talked about the DVD a few times, until I finally gave in and purchased it on amazon. Well...I most certainly don't regret buying it, because from start to finish, my partner & I really got into the movie. Neither of us expected it to be half as good as it turned out. I guess the English Subtitles & quick Spanish dialogue was hard to follow, but we got the picture and I cried half-way through the film, directly to th end. The film is all about wisdom & courage (Which many gay & hetero men in real life are lacking). I even questioned myself on how ready I'd be if I were in the same situation. People nowadays take for granted the things we so dearly need in life (family values, patience, love, understanding & honesty).

Bearcub is sure to capture & warm most viewer's hearts with its sweet but non-saccharine charm and realistic, every-day ups and downs. The setting mainly takes place in Pedro's apartment, located in Spain. Pedro (Jos&eacute; Luis Garc&iacute;a P&eacute;rez) is a single gay man whose lifestyle is open and party-oriented. He's a dentist and feels intruded upon when his sister Violeta (Elvira Lindo) dumps her son Bernardo (David Castillo) on him, supposedly for 2 weeks, while she goes on vacation. From the start, it's obvious both Pedro & Bernardo are unhappy with the sudden change. But soon enough, they bond and rely on one another's company and affection.

All through the movie, "Bears" are evident in the movie...as the movie is themed on "Bears". Being a Bear myself, I thought it was cute and only natural for masculine, natural, bearded, large-framed men to partake in the movie. The scenes in which Pedro is showing Bernardo a good time are so cute and playful. Pedro definitely makes a great Uncle, no matter what he or Bernardo is going through. I liked the lighter parts of the movie, where Bernardo's babysitter Lola (Diana Cerezo) shows him a good time, and the part where Pedro cuts Bernardo's hair with the clipper. It's really cute and shows how easily adjusted this 9 year-old boy becomes to change.

Unfortunately, Bernardo's Grandmother Do&ntilde;a Teresa (Empar Ferrer) enters the scene and spoils the bond between Uncle and Nephew, thereby breaking them apart in every way possible. During this time, she desparately tries to turn her grandson against his Uncle, disapproving of his lifestyle and their living conditions. Toward the end of the movie, she lies to Bernardo about his Uncle's health (H.I.V. infection). Due to certain circumstances, Bernardo has to leave his Uncle, alone and unhappy, until he reaches the age of 14. Until then, he moves to Valencia, Spain, to continue his education in a bording school.
In the end, the movie takes on a suprise ending and Dona Teresa passes away, enabling Bernardo to return home to Pedro's residence. It's a very touching, suprising ending, which confused me for a while.

Having seen this movie twice, it helps me appreciate my lifestyle more, and it reminds me not to take for granted, the things I've been given, including my health & other most important things. If you plan on purchasing the "Unrated" version, there are some brief "explicit" parts in the beginning & toward the end. It's nothing to be ashamed of, though. This is a fantastic gift and I highly recommend the unrated version because it's about 10 minutes longer than the rated version.