Normally when someone says that a horror film is "not for everyone," what they mean is that there's something about it that's just a little too intense for most viewers. That is definitely NOT the case here. "Planet of the Vampires" is not a particularly gory film, nor is it really very graphic, nor is it even really all that fast-paced. Actually, it's slow. Really slow. But...
Basically, it's a good movie for one of three audiences: 
1. Nostalgists who remember this movie and others like it from Saturday matinees on TV. 
2. People who like to watch movies to make fun of them...you know, old movies, made when movies were bad. I hate these people and like the idea of them throwing money at the folks who put out the Midnight Movies series. Better than that blowing all their excess income on WWF memorabilia.
3. Students of film, i.e., movie geeks. The open-minded viewer will be able to see through the awful dialogue, not-so-hot acting and general lack of action, and just bask in the lurid atmosphere that Bava creates for the alien world of his film. The color (bloody reds and luminous greens, primarily)is amazing to just look at, and the sets are worthy of much perusal. Not to mention an opening theme that really is creepy as hell, and somehow manages to make the first scenes -- which appear to depict a Go-Bot floating against a black curtain with holes poked through it to allow a flashlight beam to dimly shine out -- slightly unsettling. 
Mind you, "Planet of the Vampires" is rarely more than slightly unsettling, and frequently much, much less. There is little plot, not much happens, and there aren't any vampires. I'll be honest and say I was kinda hoping for some whacked-out Italian vampire space goddess to appear, some kinky approximation of Barbara Steele in full cosmic vampire regalia, exposing much skin and gnawing at the necks of hapless spacemen with her wicked fangs, but no. Sadly, no. It was not to be. My hopes were dashed. No slinky vampire women, no Barbara Steele, just some reanimated dead fellas who stumble around and cause trouble. But...
I don't know, there are a few scenes that are genuinely cool. The emergence of the zombies from their graves is great. The climax of the film is -- amazingly -- rather suspenseful, almost shocking in that nothing else in the movie is. And the ending, while a science fiction cliche, works here because you never see it coming. 
Further, film geeks of varying degrees will be stunned at first how Ridley Scott (blatantly!) swiped from "Planet of the Vampires" for the (so much better it goes without saying) "Alien;" how John Carpenter swiped the setting and the general plot of intangible aliens possessing human bodies for his (superior) "Ghosts of Mars;" and how...okay, maybe this one is just me, but it seems plausible...Lucio Fulci appears to have stolen the last scenes of "The Gates of Hell" (little kid emerges from Bava-ish mists to come into view and be revealed as a zombie) from a scene about two-thirds of the way through "Planet of the Vampires!" 
Can so much genius have been mined from one film that is (most charitably) more style than substance, and (least charitably) not really that great a flick on its own terms? Well, it sure looks like it. Unbelievably, "Planet of the Vampires" has evidently been influential on a lot of moviemakers; if nothing else, it should be seen for that reason.