Here's the upfront skinny (If you know the premise already, skip to "What I think"):
Orange County, an MTV Film, is a flic about a high school senior, Shawn (Colin Hanks,
Tom's son), who finds a book written by a Stanford University professor, becomes
obsessed with writing, and prays to study writing with that professor (Kevin Kline). As he
pursues his dream, with no help from his extremely dysfunctional family, he begins his
pursuit to be accepted at Stanford. When his high school counselor (Lilly Tomlin) sends
the wrong transcript desperate mad-capped antics frequently pop-up as the team of
Shawn, his nature loving girl friend and his loser brother go to the Stanford campus to try to
convince the dean of admissions (Harold Ramis - Egon from Ghostbusters) to let him in,
regardless of the error. 
Here's what I think: This movie had an Indie feel, with a big studio budget. The star power
alone was amazing. Overall, I thought Orange County was a really good, but not the best, motion picture
in the teen genre. Story background was desperately missing, as well as character development which would
have made this film easier to swallow instead of having to guess at the reasoning behind character
behavior. However, once the movie progresses the viewer can't help but be sucked into the plot, the
urgency, and the insanity of the cast. 
It may seem a little exaggerated at first but to realize that each character represents a unique
aspect of our American culture is quite mind bending. It had the smart-assed, immature
essence of an American Pie but the moral value of a fairy tale. The character portrayal was strong.
The dialogue was intelligent and fresh. The examination of current pop culture was evident. The soundtrack
was scrumtrelescent. The typical teen movie cheese was minimal. 
The main character's odd ball surfer friends were great. His divorced, self-centered parents
(Catherine O'Hara and John Lithgow) were great. And all of the cameo appearances by big stars
were great - Chevy Chase as the high school principal, Ben Stiller as a firefighter, Kevin Kline,
etc. etc. etc.
If you are a fan of Tenacious D, or in fact, any other movie Jack Black has been in, you will bust a gut at
his hilarious contribution to this film. However, if you have heard this was Jack Black's
new film, that's only a half truth. Yes, JB is in it but only as the drugged out loser brother, which is
a role that JB probably didn't have to practice much for. Even though he was the comic relief, he
only had a supporting role.
This film is intended for the teen-young adult. Those who closely remember the college
acceptance process will get the most out of this movie and have the most empathy for
Shawn. 
It was funny, it was touching, and best of all, it wasn't annoying. And my wife liked it too.
(We both recently graduated from college). If anything it is a warning against ditzy high
school, college counselors.