I admit to originally renting this movie because of Christina Ricci during her fuller-figured days. Aside from Ricci, I did not expect much else from this movie, but what I did get during the process was a lot more than I ever thought. I will delve a bit deeper but first I want to cover a few of the basics.

This is pretty much a bare-bones DVD with just the movie itself and little else in the way of special-features. The few extra things you do get include: English and Spanish subtitles as well as a handful of trailers semi-hidden as easter-eggs. The trailers you get are Buffalo 66, The Big Kahuna(Danny Devito), and Confidence(Dustin Hoffman). The movie runs 109 minutes.

For starters, obviously, this movie is not for everyone. Those who dislike it, dislike it tremendously. They'll find it senseless and will never ever like it. But so what..this movie was obviously not intended for everyone; and so for those that this movie did touch, you're guaranteed a unique and transformational experience.

From the first time I've seen Buffalo 66 on a VHS copy in 2002 till now, I must have watched this movie at least a dozen times, it never gets old. And each time I watch it, I get something new from it. From the moment that Billy leaves prison and lays on that snowy bench by himself, I begin to feel his angst. His world is dark and dreary with more than a hint of misery.

But, right underneath these somber circumstances, I could sense a need to push beyond it and a need to transform all of it. Billy's obsessed goal is to kill the Buffalo Bills kicker for doing him wrong. Along the way, Billy kidnaps Layla(Ricci). Then he uses her as a prop in order to decieve his aloof parents whom he has not seen in years, since before he went to prison.

For me, this movie fits with the old adage of something being indescribable. You just gotta experience it. The process and the journey is what this movie is all about. There is plenty of black humor and some subtle sweet moments along the way, it's all part of the adventure. All the other characters add their little spice to Billy Brown's world. So if you are adventurous enough, come take a journey to the world of Buffalo 66.