Von Ryan's Express (VRE) is classic WWII `escapist' entertainment.  Frank Sinatra stars in the suspenseful adventure that involves a train commandeered by a group of liberated Allied POW's in Italy, making a desperate bid for freedom, with the German army close behind.  Although this two disc version of VRE provides additional information about the film, and has some informative bonus features, you may want to pass, if you already own the regular edition of the film.  Much of the focus is directed at legendary composer Jerry Goldsmith, and while Goldsmith did marvelous work in both film and television, it seems a bit odd having the music department sharing the spotlight with the megastar Sinatra.

The bonus disc contains four short featurettes, trailers, TV spots and a still gallery.  Very nice, but this content totals less than an hour.  Also included are four, high quality, miniature replicas of lobby cards.

As the sole bonus feature on the main disc, Goldsmith's musical score is isolated, and combined with a new commentary track.  Rousing and exciting when it needs to be, and poignant as well, Goldsmith's music is an excellent match for the onscreen action.  The composer seems to have taken a minimalist approach, as only about 27 minutes of the film has music running underneath.  VRE runs 117 minutes, and during most of the remaining 90 minutes, commentary is provided by producer Nick Redman, musical historian John Burlingame, and screenwriter Lem Dobbs, who discuss both the music, and other matters concerning the film.  Their commentary is rather low-key and analytical, mostly centered on Sinatra, and putting VRE in historical context.  Running between the sections with music, the commentary is interesting, though disjointed at times.  Unfortunately, aside from Sinatra, not much is said about others in the cast, like Trevor Howard or Edward Mulhare.  Raffaella Carra receives some critical hits from the panel.  No mention at all is made of actors Adolfo Celi, Sergio Fantoni, Wolfgang Preiss, or Vito Scotti.

The film was shot in Hollywood, and at various locations in Europe.  Prior to VRE, Sinatra had been in Hawaii, directing his first (and only) film, None But the Brave (1965), a WWII adventure set on an island in the south Pacific.  While in Hawaii, Sinatra was apparently saved from drowning by Brad Dexter, who became a close friend.  Thanks to Frank, Dexter appears in VRE with fourth billing.

According to information in the bonus materials, Twentieth Century Fox's epic, Cleopatra (1963) was a financial bomb, and the crippled studio was backing VRE, looking for it to deliver solid returns at the box office.  Similar to `The Great Escape', the screenplay was modified to increase the level of action, and boost the film's appeal.  VRE was based on a book by David Westheimer, who actually was a POW in Italy.  Westheimer worked on the original screenplay, and other writers later contributed to create a more action-packed and exciting, though unrealistic story.  When Old Blues Eyes signed on, the Von Ryan character was rewritten to reflect his personality.  During production, Sinatra was demanding and temperamental, and had issues with director Mark Robson.  It was Sinatra who insisted that his character die, and he refused to film an alternate ending.

Jerry Goldsmith, who wanted to be a composer from an early age, won an Oscar for The Omen (1976).  A true giant in the industry, he scored many other films in his long career, including The Planet of the Apes, The Blue Max, Patton, Chinatown, Our Man Flint, Papillion, Logan's Run, The Sand Pebbles, Basic Instinct, Total Recall, Deep Rising, Supergirl, Alien, Poltergeist, Air Force One, Mulan, and Star Trek the Motion Picture.  Though his score for Von Ryan was excellent, because of lack of material, a soundtrack was never released.  Goldsmith passed away in 2004 at the age of 75.

Von Ryan's Express is a classic film that is very much indicative of a particular time, style, and genre of filmmaking.  Featuring a charismatic star, it sweeps you along and takes you on a tense and exciting journey.  This edition is certainly the one to get, but for those that already own the standard version of the film, unless you really love Von Ryan's Express, Frank Sinatra, or perhaps Jerry Goldsmith, it may not justify a repeat purchase.