Another awful 50's science fiction entry in the never-ending sweepstakes for the Worst Film Of All Time award.  I don't want to rush to judgment by calling the director W. Lee Wilder a schlockmeister as others are quick to but there's scant little evidence to the contrary here.  And the only thing that the so-called killers from space come even close to killing is the career of actor Peter Graves.  Even so I notice that there are a number of defenders with comments here giving this film a 'thumbs-up' as one of the 'so-bad-it's-good' variety.  I can't agree with them though.  'Killers From Space' is just plain boring and never manages to generate any excitement or suspense, although it does provide at least a small dosage of unintentional laughs occasionally.  The best laughs come when scientist Doug Martin (played by Graves) recalls his experiences while under the influence of truth serum.  Martin was pulled from a plane wreckage and though he was dead he was revived by the aliens who then mesmerized him into carrying out a spy & sabotage mission on their behalf.  If you must watch be sure to take a good look at the scenes of Martin regaining consciousness on an operating table with a trio of extraterrestrials hovering over him - this is the stuff of UFO legends.  Similar stories of alien abduction have been recounted many times in the five decades since this film was released leading one to postulate hmmmmmm...

As the scenes in the cave continue to play out Martin tries to affect an escape by following several pathways in the caverns. He soon comes across the aliens really big "animal armies" (that's what they called them!) which are supposed to ravage the earth so the aliens can assume control of the planet.  It's an endless tour of countless insects but the emphasis is clearly on a plethora of spiders - but what "animal army" would be complete without the dreadful and frightening giant horned toad?  All of these scenes are done with the usual rear projection screen with Graves doing his best to look scared.  There is a brief scene where the aliens demonstrate to Martin how they will dispose of the overgrown creatures after they are no longer needed that puts a whole new twist on the term "smoking roaches".  But by far the funniest sequence in the film is during the last few minutes which has Graves running through a power plant wearing a bathrobe and his pajamas frantically trying to turn off the power!  Now that is the kind of 'action' that turns Grade-Z movies into film folklore.  But what 'Killers From Space' is best known for are the aliens absolutely awful makeup design.  Once seen the eggy eyeballs will not be forgotten.  I guess you might say they see the sunny-side of life.

Fortunately for Peter Graves he was able to overcome these meager beginnings to get memorable roles in the classic movies 'Stalag 17' and 'Night Of The Hunter' and went on to become a household name with starring turns in the television series 'Mission: Impossible' and later the two 'Airplane' movie spoofs.  In case you didn't know the director, W. Lee Wilder, is the estranged brother of Billy Wilder - and it's clear to see that Billy had all the talent in his family!  The story's author is listed as Myles Wilder and although I can't be sure I'm going to guess that with that last name he is some sort of relative or family member also.  The screenplay author is William Raynor who wrote the screenplays for such 'classic' movies as 'The Secret Of Outlaw Flats', 'Murder Without Tears', 'Timber Country Trouble' and of course he even provided dialogue for Francis the Talking Mule in 'Francis In The Haunted House'.  Consequently I got just what I was asking for when I put this DVD into my player here at home.  Although I didn't like this movie at all I gave it three stars only for the few brief sequences that gave me giggles and because they are several others here who thought enough of it to classify it as 'so-bad-it's-good'.  Judge for yourself...if you must!