The American President, a movie written by Aaron Sorkin and produced by Rob Reiner, is not your typical everyday love story although it does have its resemblances. A romantic, political comedy this movie provides us with great pleasure while watching events unfold. It can leave you wondering why certain things happen, and thinking how delightful this movie really is.

 In The American President there are numerous well known actors that play extraordinary roles. Michael Douglas, Annette Bening, Martin Sheen, Michael J. Fox, Samantha Mathis and Richard Dreyfuss round out the main characters in the film. Other prominent actors included in the film are Anna Deavere Smith, and David Paymer.

 Each of these actors looked like they felt extremely comfortable with their roles. According to Liz an Old Dominion student, "The actors just looked like they fit into their characters. They way they acted and spoke made me really think that could play these people in real life. Sydney Ellen Wade would have to be one of the characters. She played into her role and really gave an insight to how political lobbyists operate." Bridget a George Mason student said "This movie was so charming and romantic. The actors were absolutely stupendous and I think that they did an outstanding job portraying their characters, especially Michael Douglas playing the President. He was charismatic and showed that his acting skills range from an action figure to President of the United States."

To include a brief synopsis, widowed President Andrew Shepard (Michael Douglas), meets an environmental lobbyist named Sydney Ellen Wade (Annette Bening). They have a confrontation over a bill that Sydney wants passed, which is a 20% reduction in the admission of fossil fuels. The President disagrees with the bill but says if she can get 24 votes by the State of the Union he will support her bill, there is another little argument before she leaves his office and something quite humorous occurs. After the confrontation he invites her to State Dinner where they really being to hit things off. She comes over for dinner the next night and they have a romantic moment beginning their romance. Meanwhile since this movie is taking place during an election year we have the political opponent, Bob Rumson (Richard Dreyfuss), who would do anything in his power to beat President Shepard. Especially if this means that he will attack the President's character and his relationship with Sydney. He goes on television and begins to say horrible comments about her. During this time the President is also trying to support a bill of his own, the Crime Bill. Due to the relationship between the he and Sydney things begin to heat up when he has to choose between the two bills. The President finally makes a decision at a press conference which is also a heartfelt speech that he gives to the American people about his life. At the end of the movie we see the President walking into the chamber of Congress to deliver his State of the Union.

 I would recommend The American President to anyone who enjoys a romantic political comedy. I feel the actors did an outstanding job and the plot was charming. Rachel a student at Radford University said, "Yes, I would recommend this movie to others. It was a good movie if you are into that romantic, political type." Liz and Rachel both agreed that men will also like this movie because it is not really a "chick flick" but more a movie that all can enjoy. If you like this movie and you would like to watch more movies related to presidential romance and politics I would recommend Dave and Air Force One. I hope everyone enjoys The American President and falls in love with it as much as I did.