For me, watching "Mulan" on Special Edition DVD was the first time viewing the movie. It's a great presentation and it really holds up well. The music is in the strong Disney tradition, with vocal pieces developed by Matthew Wilder and David Zippel and the awesome soundtrack by the late Jerry Goldsmith. The story is well written, with characters the viewer can really feel for, particularly the main character Mulan. Finally, the film is a visual masterpiece that really draws the eye to its beauty and helps to tell the story. Possibly the film's only weak point is its villain --- Shan-Yu doesn't really have the same effect as some of the more well-developed Disney villains such as Jafar from "Aladdin" or Hades from "Hercules."

I'm not any big, renowned film critic, so if I haven't sold you on the movie, perhaps I can at least give you a good run-down of the special features. Although the special features for the "Mulan" Special Edition DVD are not quite as numerous as those for the recent "Aladdin" release, they're just as good. The first disc contains songs / music videos and deleted scenes, as well as a tour of Mulan's World. The songs in this movie are very strong and the music videos are no exception. Some are better than others, but I definitely enjoyed them all. Jackie Chan's performance of "Be a Man" in Chinese was a great one to include. There are several deleted scenes, complete with commentary, as well as a deleted song that's fairly cool, but it's obvious wouldn't have worked with the movie. The Mulan's World feature has Mushu (Mark Moseley I would assume, since Eddie Murphy hasn't done the voice since the original feature) explaining various aspects of China. Since it's Mushu, there are plenty of jokes, of course, but I feel this actually really was quite well done as far as learning goes. Finally, the first disc includes a commentary track that gives a lot of insight into the making of the film, what things did and didn't work, and what some of the major people involved with the film liked. The second disc contains one more bonus song, "Reflection" in Spanish and a behind-the-scenes tour of the movie. Unlike the "Aladdin" behind-the-scenes featurette, this one has a bit more open feel. Each of the aspects from graphic design to music are in separate sections and you can select them to view at your leisure. You'll learn everything from how the movie was developed visually to the process of being it to other countries.

This is definitely the complete package of what one would expect from a two-disc DVD set. If, like me, you haven't seen "Mulan" before this, you should definitely take a look, or if you're already a fan of the movie, this is a great DVD set to get.