I'm still awestruck after the 10th time of watching this movie.  Yes, it is that good.

Every time I watch an epic of any kind that is based on historical facts my first expectation is for the movie to give me the sense that I was there as a silent witness.  Coupled with that I value high accuracy when it comes to plot/story.  Barring that I want to be entertained, not bluffed, and certainly not bored.  While this movie falls a tad short on the second it delivers the first in a grandiose scale that I dare say has not been equaled since or before.  It is highly entertaining and if you are like me you will hit the books trying to learn more about this, most controversial of personalities, enigmatic historical figure that was Napoleon Bonaparte.

The real Napoleon was quite an egomaniac and bombastic character.  Rod Steiger captures that, although from a looks perspective, he's much too tall and not quite as old looking as Napoleon was at this stage of his life.  Christopher Plummer is just fantastic as Wellington.  Even though there is no close contact between the two you feel the dialogue being carried on the field by their respective men.  The military advisers did their part, there is a genuine air of martial knowledge throughout the film.  Students of the battle will not be dissapointed as the main salient points have been faithfully captured.

This is a war-movie buff's dream come true.  Every little scene is like a precious vignette.  I find myself hitting the pause button to admire the picture.  There are times when I feel I am looking at a war oil painting by one of the great masters.  You cannot possibly absorb it all in just one view of the movie, you must see it several times to increase your appreciation.  The magnitude of the movie is just plain breathtaking.  There is one scene that I will never forget where the breadth of Wellington's army is shown, in almost a 360 camera pan.  They must have used a division or two of Soviet troops as extras to show row after row of British infantrymen.  The final charge of the old guard upon the Scott Grays regiment is just sublime.  I wish it had been longer as it was the apex of the battle but that is minor nitpicking and actually reflects the mark of a great movie: it leaves you wishing for more.

Great movie, I can't recommend it highly enough.  By comparison CGI pales.  I'm glad this movie was made then and not now.  Watch it, at the very least you will be entertained, at best you will want to own it forever.