Despite its Buddhist trappings, The Burmese Harp is not a film about Buddhism or religion, but a film about responsibility and atonement to the _Japanese_ war dead.  Director Kon Ichikawa may have wanted to make a film with universal themes, but the message that comes through is for a much narrower audience.

The film tells the story of a Japanese soldier cut off from his unit who has a transformative encounter with death.  Stealing the robes of a monk to disguise himself, Mizushima struggles through a broken landscape to return to his unit, along the way encountering one grisly corpse after another, sometimes piles of them, some being picked apart by carrion eaters.  He tries to bury or cremate those he finds but there are so many he quickly exhausts himself.  Stumbling into town, his life is changed after witnessing a British medical team bury an unknown Japanese soldier, a scene which crystallizes for him his duty to stay in Burma to inter the corpses of Japanese soldiers.

In its broad themes, the film is humanistic and universal.  Love of music and home is shared by all humans.  We all shy from death and suffering.  But look closer and you find that Mizushima sees only Japanese corpses.  His primary motivation for remaining in Burma is to bury _Japanese_ soldiers whose remains might otherwise be thrown into unmarked graves by the British or Burmese.  But what of Burmese corpses?  British corpses?  Not a one to be seen, nor commented on.  To what degree can one atone for participating in war without realizing that all sides suffer, not just your own?

This Criterion release features an interview with Rentaro Mikuni, who plays the unit captain, in which he mentions that he was himself stationed overseas during the war and was made to take bayonet practice on live animals as well as prisoners of war.  Yet nothing like this kind of behavior is ever suggested in the film.  There is no whiff of the brutality visited on the  Burmese by Japan's Imperial Army.  On the contrary, the Japanese soldiers are portrayed as rather happy go lucky lads caught in a bad situation, which pretty much continues to be the national attitude of Japan toward its war time experience.

The Burmese Harp is a hollow piece of work that depicts suffering without addressing the causes of suffering.  For more forthcoming accounts of Japanese experiences of WWII, see Minoru Matsui's "Japanese Devils."

#