Reviews of this movie which say that Vera is simply an angel of mercy and good as gold are misunderstanding the way Vera's story is told - watch it again and you'll see that little by little Vera's actions become less about "helping girls out" (which she does do, there's no arguing with that) and more about how little she is able to come to terms with some of the darker aspects of her work. She goes through her life whistling a happy tune, but she walks away from everything complicated - as the movie proceeds, we see little by little how she turns from the girls who obviously are having emotional trouble with what they're doing when getting their abortions. She doesn't stay to calm them or to work through the psychological pain they're going through, because that's not the way Vera's made.

Truth-telling isn't a tool in her toolbox. For Vera, the solution to all of life's problems, big or small, is to have a cup of tea. [In fact, the first time someone asked me if I wanted "a cuppa" after I saw this movie, I just blanched.] Vera is so tightly wound, and needs her world to be so simple, so good, that she's destroyed when her world comes to a screeching halt. So she's no "angel of mercy" -- and the people reviewing this film who think she is just too good to be true are missing the point. She is good, deeply good and caring, but she's also badly flawed, and those flaws are due to her own deprivations and her own struggle to survive. Mike Leigh doesn't want us leaving the theater thinking Vera was only a victim of a bad law. He wants us to understand that she, and many other poor people in England after the Depression and the Blitz, coped with their burdens in very different ways. Some people in Vera's world are bitter about the war, others put the war away and never think about it. Some long for material things, some don't.  Some people remain loving despite their problems. Some don't. Some people make money off girls who are in trouble. Some, like Vera, help girls out without compensation. Some rich girls in trouble lie to doctors and get legal abortions. Some laugh and act like they don't care about anything. Everyone copes differently with problems, and Vera's way of coping is going to catch up with her, you know it from the start and it's painful to watch.

Vera is wonderfully loving with her family, and she is well-intentioned. She performs the abortions out of concern for the young girls involved. But she is only forced to slow down and think (to stop whistling and stop offering people tea and biscuits and stop fussing and cooing)when her actions are brought home to her. She sometimes helps people, and she sometimes hurts people, but she never has slowed down to think about it.

Imelda Staunton's performance is absolutely brilliant (and don't believe the reviewer who says she cries and cries - that's just not true - her sorrow is very tightly controlled - to the point of an unnerving paralysis, in fact, where she can't even respond.) Her supporting crew is equally good. Pay close attention as the movie opens to the way these people talk about the war and the damage done to them in those years. Maybe we've forgotten how hard that was for people, what they were forced to do, how they coped. It's a real key to the film. We all applaud grit and gumption [think of Churchill turning Dunkirk, which was a slaughter, into "Britain's finest hour"]and we know that Vera has enough gumption to keep her going forever, if nothing gets in the way. But do we applaud a life spent pretending that everything is rosy as can be?

Honor this movie by slowing down and thinking about what's both good and bad about Vera. She's learned to survive by limiting her vision to only the good, ignoring everything bad. Then, abruptly, she is reminded that not only is there ugliness and pain in the world, but she has caused some of it herself. This is a beautiful movie, but it takes some quiet reflection to get to the heart of it.