Thankfully, a film about Joy Division and the continuing myth of its frontman, Ian Curtis, landed in the right hands.  Only someone close to the band could have pulled off this masterful film, encapsulating not only Ian Curtis but the entire feel of a miserable place like late 70's Manchester, England.

At the opening whirling, eerie sound of Exercise One, I was hooked for a lifetime.  Sadly, Joy Division was the basis of too many "goth" bands that followed who never seemed to understand their punk roots.  This movie, I hope and pray, will cast a dark light onto that presumption and dispel it once and for all.  Joy Division were a tough band in a tough time.

Anton Corbijn made a solid choice to shoot this film in black and white.  Joy Division were a black and white band.  Stark, bleak, beautiful; beyond or beneath the confusion of color.  Marrying too soon, becoming too big and finding himself profoundly overwhelmed, Ian Curtis understood more about failed relationships and the futility of existence by 23 than most people will know in a lifetime.  He lived a black and white life.  Hope vs. despondency.

In retrospect, the album Closer was one he could never survive.  That album is a blueprint for a funeral.  Yet never wallowing in self-pity, he crafted painfully honest lyrics that drive into the heart of depression.  Upon seeing this film, years after reading the book Touching From A Distance, it became even clearer that his suicide was a viable option for him.  His depression was severe, a US tour was the next day, his guilt about being a poor father and his two tenuous relationships were all approaching the boiling point.  As in all suicides, the pain of continuing on eclipsed the fear of the dying.  What was he to do?  Quit and go back to working at the employment office?  No.  That was a fate worse than death.

Like the book, Control does a good job of portraying Ian Curtis not wholly as a victim of his diseases.  He was not the nicest guy yet you find yourself empathetic of his ordeals.  Where having a child will often transform a father, the birth of his child sent him further into despair.  For that, he could not forgive himself.  He was not merely ashamed of his behavior but, as he wrote in the song Isolation - "I'm ashamed of the person I am."  The grave was already shoveled; it was only a matter of time before he stepped in.

I would recommend knowing and enjoying the music of Joy Division before seeing the film.  It is a great film but (possibly?) one that is best taken in context.  As a fan, it's fascinating to see their rise from nothing into massive.  And the toll it took on everyone.  It was a long wait for a great film about Ian Curtis and Joy Division and I can soundly declare, I'm glad I lived long enough to see it.