I don't want to malign the folks who wish that this were Star Wars, but geez, talk about wooden acting, boxy dialogue,  cornball plotting... I go off.  All apologies, Yodaheads!

Anyway, case closed.  This remains the greatest film of the talking period, period.  The technical stuff is great, but the core of the film, as one reviewer noted, is character.  Character is the genesis of great fiction.  I ought to know.  I've taught creative writing for twenty years and published a chunk myself, some of it pretty acceptable.

But there is more.  This film gets at, through Charles Foster Kane's excursions and incursions, the essence of American Imperialism, which appears more and more to be the essence of the American Character, the notion that "I'm right and everyone else is wrong, or at least inferior."  Entitlement both personal and international.  Does this not ring anyone's bell?  Kane had his pet war, created by a corrupt government in collusion with the media...and we now get...?  Somebody shout it out:  Fox.

So if watching things blow up is your idea of entertainment, I'd recommend sticking with  games.  If you want to feel and think along with a movie that could have, should have, been made today, this is your ticket.

Also, you get Orson Welles acting with the bravura of a champ, not to mention Joseph Cotton, who is sublime as the innocent turned cynic.  And all the technical stuff that everybody talks about.  Yep.  Great.  Still, for me, this is one of the two movies that best encapsulate the "character" we 'murkins have backed ourselves into by neglecting to confront the dark side of ourselves and the society we've created.  The other, obviously, is that great film by David Lynch, Blue Velvet.  Quite a different film, but the two works have similar resonances.

Power, money, control, denial, rot, denial.  And then denial.

I also invariably find Citizen Kane quite entertaining.  I've watched it about fifty times, and laughed and cried.  I wince at the slow decay, the destruction of everything that touches the man.  Yet the early sequences with the young Kane!  They're hilarious, full of self-absorbed adolescence gone amok and gone on way too long, as one might also characterize some critics of this masterpiece...and who might see themselves a little too clearly, hence the negativity...and denial.  Nobody has approached the level of craft AND emotion of this movie and with Hollywood being what it is, nobody ever will.  Hello, Mr. Welles.  We forgive you forever for the wine commercials!