The best way to pay tribute to this film and the legacy of Apollo, is to buy an extra copy of this DVD and send it to our elected Representatives in Congress.  Enclose a note that says something like, "PLEASE support NASA's plans for further exploration of the Moon and Mars by U.S. astronauts.  Let's return to the Moon as soon as possible, and establish a permanent lunar base, followed by a landing on Mars before the end of the next decade.  To help in the effort, I will gladly contribute to a special NASA R&D fund on my Federal tax return."

It's been 38 years since the first lunar landing by the Eagle during the astonishingly successful mission of Apollo 11.  The last, Apollo 17, three and half years later, barely made the headlines.  There is so much more to learn about our Solar System and the Universe.  Why have we not progressed in all this time in our ability to explore the Moon, and what is stopping us from a manned expedition to Mars?

What great inspiration did we have back then during the Apollo era that we have somehow lost in the years since?  Are we no longer inspired to continue mankind's efforts to go where no man has gone before?  All it takes is the political will fueled by our national pride to lead the world in technological achievements.  We still have the best Engineers and Astronauts, and hundreds of thousands of aerospace workers ready to make it happen.  What we could achieve in another 38 years could be done in half that time with the resources we already have to take exploration of our solar system to the next logical step.  Yes, it will be costly, but no more so than the last several years protecting our oil interests in the Middle East.

Watch this DVD and find out from the pioneers of lunar exploration that so long ago demonstrated what it takes to have "the right stuff".  There are many, hundreds more, astronaut explorers ready and eager to continue where the Apollo astronauts left off beginning with further exploration of the Moon.  The time has come again to take the "next" small step for man, but a giant leap for mankind.