As a little ol' white girl, about 10 or 11, I listened to a "fight" on the radio one night.  How I came to be interested in it is beyond me, but I remember being alone in the house.  As I sat there listening, the commentator became so excited describing the action that I couldn't help but get caught up in the moment.  And then he won!  All the sudden I hear, "I Am The Greatest! I Am The Greatest!"  I could hear the pandemonium in the background, but his voice rang out, proud and sassy, over and above it.  Cassius Clay was the new Heavyweight Champion!  Whatever that is.  Hey - I wasn't that old!  Only later did I realize how momentous this bout was in the annals of sports.
Flash forward 40 years.  I would hear about the latest news of Muhammad Ali on occasion and I never missed an opportunity to watch him on TV.  He was so brash and funny in the way he talked, but so formidable when he stepped into the ring.  I would always think back to that night.  The sport of boxing is so far removed from my life that when I speak of him, my admiration and opinions are generally dismissed as "something this woman could know nothing about".  But you see, they're wrong. Ali reaches through to those you would least expect.  That is the magic of his spirit.  But try to explain that to somebody.  When I saw this film the first time I smiled all the way through it.  I knew I had the means to finally communicate the joy in discovering this athlete's allure - the humor, the boldness, the grace and the strength.  I recommend this film to all my friends and family or to anyone I talk to about Muhammad Ali.  It captures a moment in history. There's music and mayhem and so much energy - it feels like you're there!  The interviews and commentary of those who reminisce on the event adds depth to the story of how it all transpired.  The momentum builds as the fight begins with Foreman and the magnitude of their efforts is astounding.  If you've never seen him box or heard him pontificate - as only he can - you are in for a treat!  Bask in the glory of this film.  And thank God we have it for posterity.