I was pleased to discover the existence of this collection of five Bela Lugosi films which were produced in his post-Dracula heyday, before his popularity declined and he was reduced to supporting parts at the studios of Poverty Row, and an unjust obscurity considering his talent and capabilities. I had only seen two of these titles previously, 'The Raven' and 'The Black Cat' on poor transfer and was resigned to never seeing them presented properly at least in my Region, but lo and behold the wonders of Amazon!

Anyway, I am pleased to report that the digital transfer of 'Cat' and 'Raven' are an improvement on the other DVD's which I have seen. The picture is clear and crisp and the soundtracks have been considerably improved. Both these titles are classics and I believe that as time goes on and they become better known, their cult status will not have been in vain. Ulmer's 'The Black Cat' is such a joy for anyone who a) may have an  interest in German expressionism; b) is a Universal horror fan or c) knows a great piece of entertainment no matter what genre it may belong to, when they see it. The black and white cinematography is gorgeous and the production design is truly awesome. Ulmer is regarded as the Orson Welles of Poverty Row but I don't use that moniker in a condescending fashion, rather that he was capable of making something out of very little because of his talent and dedication to the film medium.

'Murders in the Rue Morgue' is a tad on the gruesome side, but must give the critics with a Freudian bent something to write about. I know nothing of the Poe story it is based upon, but it does have a wonderful atmosphere of 19th century Parisian decadence which is very appealing and done in a way that you can take it seriously and not laugh. I am only getting used to this title as it is new to me, but I think I will enjoy watching it some more. 'Black Friday' is the weakest in the collection, but it is reasonable enough if you are only looking for some escapist entertainment, as opposed to great art.

To sum up, I think this collection is good value for money, as well as a showcase for Lugosi's talent. Also, it is an interesting overview of the horror cinema of the mid 30's to 40's, before the genre suffered the crippling blow of being banned in England. Universal's resort to a number of silly sequels and parody movies that sadly are not even of the class of something as inconsequential as 'Black Friday', would indicate that this collection represents a swansong of sorts for the genre of Universal Studios horror.