And none of the action is phoned in either. Machete starts off with a bang, or a slice. Dispatching more drug lord henchmen than most movies have.

Machete is ripped from the headlines plot featuring illegal immigration over the U.S. Mexican border. Machete (Danny Trejo) is a former Mexican Federale whose family has been killed by drug lord Torrez (Steven Seagal). Machete is in the U.S. as an illegal day laborer who is hired to kill an unprincipled state Senator (Robert DeNiro) trying to make a name for himself. Machete discovers that he's been set up by Booth (Jeff Fahey) who is playing both sides of the immigration issue. As Machete careens from one side to another falls in with Jessica Alba as an ICE agent, and Michelle Rodriguez as a leader of a Mexican underground railroad. But don't let the issue fool you. It's there just to set all the characters in motion and there's no "hidden" message or agenda to either side of the argument. Characters on both sides are creepy and don't even manage to do the right thing for the wrong reason.

All the performances are matched for the actor. There is no great range or nuance to the characters but there doesn't need to be. All the action is over the top and all the characters have to do is deliver, and deliver they do. Danny Trejo as Machete, the always stoic hero who never flinches when faced with gun, sword, bomb, or girl. Steven Seagal's usual one note performance and shoe polish hairline are still visible, but it's the right note for the character. Don Johnson as a vigilante, killing people crossing the border is a combination of Marlon Brando and Robert Duvall's characters from Apocalypse Now. DeNiro's character is the only one I thought a little subdued and I thought there would be more to the character. But DeNiro is a smart enough actor to be able to match his performance to the material. Jessica Alba as ICE agent Sartana, able to fight and make arrests in the highest of heels.

Robert Rodriquez turns in another of his hands on productions. Rodriguez did everything from writing and directing the movie, to editing, to the soundtrack. It's clear that Rodriguez has studied the exploitation genre. He has the camera movements down, the jump cuts, he acknowledges and uses every clich&eacute;, but they're used smartly and some times have a little snap or twist on them. Such as in a show of trust when Machete turns over a gun to Jessica Alba's ICE agent but she knows he took the clip out. Rodriguez's tongue is planted firmly in his cheek. The violence is beyond cartoonish and frequently delivered with a humorous twist. It's also good to see a filmmaker willing to bring nudity back into a movie, and not the Kathy Bates type of nudity. In one topless scene with Lindsay Lohan I think we can all say `all is forgiven Lindsay.'

Machete is a popcorn munching good time!