Previously considered a dress rehearsal for Cooper and Schoedsack's history-making King Kong (released the following year) or, truth be told, not at all (it was a lost film until prints were discovered in the 1970s), The Most Dangerous Game has undergone a critical makeover of sorts in recent years. It's not hard to see why. Adapted from Richard Connell's acclaimed short story of the same name, Game is deeply a product of an era echoed by our own - a people still coming to grips with the assembly-line slaughter of the first world war while standing on the precipice of a second.

Celebrity big game hunter Bob Rainsford (Joel McCrea) is on his way to yet another safari - we meet on him on the deck of a yacht, regaling those around him with his intrinsically Darwinian philosophy of life: "The world is divided into two kinds of people in life, the hunter and the hunted." Ah, but how easily one becomes the other when the yacht is shipwrecked off the shore of a nearby island and the passengers are eaten by sharks. Rainsford luckily is able to swim to shore, but it is here where the story really begins as he becomes the target of a maniacal "Cossack" Count Zaroff (Leslie Banks, his own face scarred by war, here exaggerated with makeup), bored with traditional hunting but consumed by a different kind of "game."

The double meaning of the title (Game refers both to the pastime and the prey, this being man) becomes quite clear in the film's artfully directed climactic chase sequence when tables are turned once more. The villain Zaroff is an artifact of an older, dying world of brick castles, dungeons, and crossbows. Gentlemen hunt each other (read: war) out of boredom and call it sport, initiated after brandy and cigars in the study.

Alas, even for an aristocrat like Zaroff, there's no chivalry to be had in death - is it no accident that the Cossack, with his affinity for rustic weaponry, ultimately sees his henchman done in with a pistol. As he himself lay dying, Zaroff can only watch helplessly from his little island as Rainsford and love interest (Fay Wray) jet off in a gas-powered motorboat. It's a direct affront to the villain's spoken axiom that lust for flesh is best fulfilled after lust for blood, and indeed, one of the earliest cinematic expressions of "Make Love, Not War." While only preceding King Kong (and its overt anti-hunting themes) by a few months, it predates (in its own charmingly unsuspecting way) the 1960s hippie movement by a good thirty years.

Interesting footnote: If you think Zaroff's isolated stretch of land looks an awful like Skull Island, you wouldn't be wrong. Both Game and Cooper and Schoedsack's follow-up, King Kong, were shot using the same sets at the very same time - Game was photographed at night while Kong was filmed during the day. The Most Dangerous Game was later remade by Robert Wise as 1945's A Game of Death. Emphasizing the war parallels, "Count Zaroff" the Cossack was converted into "Erich Kreiger" the Nazi.