Ok, here are a few recconmendations if you are contemplating buying this... first off, you will need a set of dumbbells in your weight range (I personally use anything from 2-10lbs, hoping to increase and need heavier weight soon), a step, a mat, and just about a 6" by 6" area to move I would say.  Great if you live in small quarters.  I know I do.  It will help if you are familiar with her exercises, but it is not necessary... you can learn as you go.  I would say beginners to advanced can use this because of the built in modifications and the ability for you to vary your weights.  Also, it would be best if you are not already sore before doing this!  It's pretty tough if you truly challenge yourself.

You will see a good bit of repeat exercises from previous DVDs, it's true, but there was enough variety to keep me interested and going.  Skull crushers for instance I had never done before, and now love them because they certainly make you feel the burn in the triceps (a trouble spot for me).  I wish there had been a little bit more lower body work, but that was ok with me... I think she hits you hard enough with the squats and lunges in the beginning to make up for it.  Jari has a very good personality to me in this one... she just seems to have hit that right balance of being friendly, motivating and just a little chatty at times.  She is very relaxed in this one even though the workout is hard and that helps me keep my cool.  During the stretching segment she chats a lot with Gaylene and Mike.  I liked hearing other people's takes on Jari's workouts.  I was amazed and impressed to hear that Gaylene (who is also featured in Ripped 1000) is 57 and does not too carefully watch what she eats.  That made it seem more real to me that I can actually have Ripped results without totally giving up every yummy food I love!  No seriously, I do watch what I eat, but unlike Jari, I do have a treat once or twice a week such as ice cream or a small bowl of chips.  I doubt Jari has seen these foods since childhood.  Anyway, the stretching segment does get gyped a little because of this... you may just want to do your own stretching while you listen.

There is no Abs workout on this, except for the Bonus Feature which is the Abs workout from Slim and Lean... which by the way is only about 5 minutes and is not the best, but it's ok if you want a quick fix for your abs.  I personally always do extra ab workouts after doing her DVDs... that's where all my fat seems to settle.

Other bonus features include some nutritional informationa about portion sizes and some tips on what to eat, when to eat etc.  GREAT INFO!  Make sure you check this out.  Also, some delicous and healthy recipes included.  Get out some pen and paper to copy those down.

One little gripe I had about this video was her selection of "Judy" to participate.  Judy hardly smiled and had a mean look on her face most of the time, but more than that, her form was sloppy in some exercises.  During the bicep track, I found myself yelling at her.  She was definetely swinging the barbell up using momentum and then smooshing herself in the boobs with it, releasing the contraction on the bicep. A good bicep curl requires that you control the movements up and down and you don't come up quite all the way... I know that's tough on 120 reps, but maybe she should have had lighter weight then!  It was just dissapointing because I have enjoyed seeing all the other Rippers and found them motivating.  Gaylene was great and knowing her age makes it even more admirable!

Bottom line... great strength training here... small annoyances throughout should not impede you.  Seriously, Jari has a good thing going.  If you're questioning her methods or not sure if you wanna buy this or hang with her workouts, Please do so for at least a few weeks.  Believe me, when I first tried Slim and Lean a long time ago, I didn't like it, but I stuck with it... and for the first time in my life I have muscle definition instead of that soft pudgy look.  Go for it!!!! Good luck!