Such is the assertion made boldly and impertinently by Detective Harry Callahan to the San Francisco D.A in "Dirty Harry", perhaps the greatest urban cop thriller ever made.  This remark, accompanied by a least a dozen others, was deemed didactic, fascist, and reactionary upon the film's original release.  And in many corners of American liberalism, the film is still thought to be screened only in either William F. Buckley's penthouse suite or on Dick Cheney's hunting trips.  This interpretation is superficial and sequacious, given that many of the film's detractors never even saw it (nothing much has changed, as witness the controversies surrounding "Brokeback Mountain" or "Million Dollar Baby", "topical" movies that are not really even about their purported topics), and that the film

offers as many reasons to hate Harry as it does reasons to applaud him.

  Such austere ambiguity can be ascribed only to the filmmaker, the inimitable Don Siegel, as taut and mature a director as Hollywood has ever produced.  Socially-minded critics have always encountered a slippery task in trying to pin

down his ideological agenda.  But when an argument is borne over  whether "Invasion of the Body Snatchers" is anti-Communist or anti-McCarthyist, or if "Coogan's Bluff" is an indictment of New York hippiedom, the opposing sides lose sight of what is so truly great in each movie.  Similarly, "Dirty Harry" offers an account of a fascist policeman who, regardless of his good intentions, winds up a criminal and a vigilante.  Siegel constantly, yet subtlely alludes to the unnerving similarities between the serial killer Scorpio (Andy Robinson) and Callahan (immortalized by Clint Eastwood's feverishly laconic performance).  When his captain lectures about how these "sickos" relish any kind of repetition and pattern in their crimes, we can't shake the memory of Callahan's polished shtick that he recites to toy with captives who are in a position to shoot him.  There is something deeply, pathologically wrong with Harry, something that is in no means explained by his painful, yet unflinching admission of his wife's death, something that can no longer reside within the confines of the law, something...dangerous?  Well, this being a .44 Magnum, the most powerful handgun in the world, you betch your ass he's dangerous.