I read with great interest the comments of the Reverend RP Mortimer with regards to this film, and his review brings up one crucial issue concerning historical films or at least those depicting historical figures: is true historical accuracy important? Anyone who has seen "The Thin Red Line" or "Apocalypse Now" or "Schindlers' List" or the Channel Four film "Welcome to Sarejevo" will surely accept, as I do, that minute detail can be compromised so long as the general picture is a sound one. Thus the above films successfully convey the, undoubtedly truthful, impression that "war is hell". However, one must at this point make a distinction between films such as this, which are polemical, rather than pertaining to minute historical accuracy. Reverend Mortimer clearly accepts that "Cromwell" falls into this category; however, I have two problems with this. Firstly, and less seriously, I am not convinced that this is the case: there does not seem to be an obvious point to the picture apart from as some sort of history lesson and if this is the case then accuracy is surely crucial.
My second reservation, though, is far more serious. The films I mentioned earlier make abstract and indesputable points; "Cromwell" if Rev. Mortimer's view of the point of the film is to be accepted - and I believe it is a largely useful interpretation - is making a series of more specific points of history, and it is here where the problems exist. Let us examine a few.
Rev. Mortimer suggests that Cromwell was in a one man pursuit of "justice and truth". Yes, as far as he was concerned he was attempting to spread what he saw as the word of God. So much so that he saw his fortunes at war (the Battle of Worcester was famously "God's crowning mercy") as denoting God's approval or dissaproval of his political/religious policy: the expedition to the West Indies ended in disaster so he had to rejig the constitution having fallen from God's favour. However, this aim, by definition, precluded him from laying the foundations of "true democracy". Mortimer laments the failure of the Cromwellian system of government to stand the test of time but I wonder how many Englishmen today would approve of a government that did not tolerate atheism, Catholicism, even what became Anglicanism; that places spies in the major towns to expose anti-governmental sentiment; that closed the theatres, many alehouses and cancelled Christmas; that put entire Irish communities to the sword largely due to their religion; that kept a severely restricted franchise no wider than it was under Charles I; and that executed the leaders of true democratic movements such as the Levellers. Admittedly it is not fair to judge Cromwell by the standards of today; but the founding father of democracy? Surely not.
Possibly the great problem of the film is to blur the two contrasting periods of the Civil War, on which the film concentrates, where Cromwell only became a significant player towards the end; and the so-called "interregnum" where he ruled England, and maybe most significantly, Britain, as a virtual King. The former was the period where true politcal and religious innovation took place; the latter was, in effect, a period of reaction with much greater absolutism than under the ill-fated Charles, who had no standing army while Cromwell had 80,000 men. The fact is, and the film fails miserably to convey this (hoodwinking, it seems, some of its viewers) that like Napoleon Bonaparte, Oliver Cromwell turned his back on the revolution that created him.
I would finally like to take brief issue with some of Reverend Mortimer's lamentations with regard to our society and that of Cromwell's. Firstly he opines that "modern man cannot stand 'Puritan' principles and Godliness" (he uses Godliness in its Cromwellian sense, meaning Puritanism). While this is true it is also the case that the vast majority of Cromwell's contempories could not stomach them either. Puritans were no more than a vocal minority during the mid Stuart crisis and while this does not make them insignificant it does make them unpopular: one only has to read some of the spate of anti-Puritan literature during the Restoration period to see this. One could also suggest that the spirit of Puritanism lives on in such modern-day practices as buying organic foods or "ethical investment" but that is another story.
The second issue I have is that Mortimer talks of a people's loyalty to the "nation" which does not exist today. I wonder what Cromwell's perception of a "nation" would have beem; it would certainly be nothing like that we have today, traditionally seen as growing after the French Revolution and maybe even much later. Most people in the mid seventeenth century were not loyal to any "nation" but to what they called their "country", ie: in todays parlance their county or region - hence the fact that during the wars more people took up arms to defend their county's neutrality than did to fight for either side.
These points render the "polemical" and general points of the film largely invalid and therefore spurious. This, despite what one thinks of the question of minute accuracy, makes the film poor history and a misrepresentation of the truth.