I know that it has been said by thousands of folks but lets say it one more time. Lonesome Dove is without a doubt the greatest movie ever made. EVER. Robert Duvall as, no make that Robert Duvall is Gus McCrae and Tommy Lee Jones is Captain Woodrow F. Call. They embark on a 2500 mile cattle drive from Texas to Montana to set up ranch and be cattlemen. Gus is the kind that likes to play cards and get pokes and Call is all about business. They were Texas Rangers together in the old days and have a friendship that we all wish we could have. Along with Jake Spoon, Deets, Newt, Dish and the very underrated Tim Scott as Pea Eye they go and re steal horses from the Mexicans and then head on their way to Montana. Gus is not thrilled about going but is on the trip for only one reason and that is to go and see his long lost love Clara Allen. Along the way you are introduced to the Indian outlaw Blue Duck, who has alluded Call and McCrae from their days as rangers, Sheriff July Johnson and his deputy Rosco along with other great characters. Every actor or actress who played in Lonesome Dove seems custom made for the part they play. In this movie you have some of the best supporting roles in movie history. You have Diane Lane as Lorie, Barry Tubb as Jasper Fant, Leon Singer as Bolivar the cook from Lonesome Dove, D.B. Sweeney, in one of the best character developments, as Dish Boggett, Rick Schroeder as Calls unclaimed son Newt and many others who are just as important to the story but just to many to name. I really don't have the time and space to tell you about all the great things about this movie so you will need to set aside 6 hours and sit back and enjoy the greatest movie ever made. Now onto the Blu-Ray disc. The movie was CROPPED to make it widescreen. There was a lot more taken off of the top and bottom then was gained on the sides. However the picture quality is outstanding compared to my old DVD. The extras on this disc are also way better than the original DVD. Overall a 5/5 movie and a 4/5 Blu-Ray.