As far as film versions go, "The Adventures of Robin Hood"  is THE ONLY ROBIN HOOD!  A very large part of this is due, of course, to the wonderful performance of Errol Flynn as Robin.  With the twinkle and energy resplendent in his portrayal of the mythical nobleman turned outlaw, he gives this character a sparkle consistent with the best retellings of this tale, a sparkle that I think no other actor of his time could have contributed so successfully.

Well matched by the beautiful Olivia de Havilland as Maid Marian, and ably assisted by Claude Rains as the evil Prince John, Basil Rathbone as the murderous Sir Guy, Alan Hale as the jovial and hulking Little John, Eugene Pallette as the gravel voiced Friar Tuck,  and a host of other venerable supporting players, Errol Flynn in this film reached for and landed perhaps one of his best performances in a long and sometimes checkered acting career.

This ambitious 1938 production, one of the first shot in the newly arrived 3-Strip Technicolor process, was masterfully co-directed by top Warner Bros. directors William Keighley and the always solid Michael Curtiz.  The script is fast moving, the themes are adventure and romance, and the period production design is amazingly near flawless.

This 2 Disc Special Edition presents a glorious Technicolor print, and the DVD extras are gratifyingly full of wonderfully interesting production tidbits,  on-the-set home movies, a very interesting documentary on the origins of Technicolor narrated by Angela Lansbury, etc.  Within these extras, for example, you will find out that cowboy star Roy Rogers' famous horse Trigger first had his debut in "The Adventures of Robin Hood" as Maid Marian's steed, and that his given name (before Roy renamed him)  was something like Golden Cloud.

In summary, this is a wonderfully complete DVD presentation, and a very worthwhile acquisition for anyone who again wishes to see and feel an on-screen fulfillment of perhaps one of the most colorful and magical dreams of adventure and romance yet filmed.  This, my friends, is truly THE ONLY ROBIN HOOD!