***Update:

Now I've seen this blu ray I want to agree with all the above reviewers that rate the PQ and SQ - it's absolutely the best I've seen Towering Inferno on any home presentation format.  I'm viewing on a 100" screen projected by a Marantz VP-11S2 and fully implimented surround system, all fully calibrated.  Yep it's brilliant.

Still not quite the ultimate edition that I detail below, but probably the best we will get.

The only remaining better way to experience Towering Inferno would be to watch the road show 70mm blow up version on a giant screen in a cavernous theatrical hall... Maybe one day I can privately hire the biggest screen I can find for a one off to recreate that experience of so many decades ago...

Of course, until we see the next home video re-release in a home version of 4k digital cinema...

***

This is a pre-release review on the possible content of the Blu Ray...

It has been suggested that this is the "Ultimate" home version of Towering Inferno.  Is it really...?

As a fan of the film since it was first shown in the cinema in the seventies, I've been waiting for the "Ultimate" home version since home ownership of films started with Super 8mm film.

Towering Inferno was first available for the home as 6 reel 8mm film digest version.  I still have a copy of that release as a rare collectors item.  I also have the complete John Williams soundtrack on LP record from the seventies.  Since then there has been multiple releases on VHS, LaserDisc and DVD.  I've owned some of these release except VHS.  Have these been "Ultimate" releases? No.

Now comes the Blu ray version.  Will it be the "Ultimate" release?

The "Ultimate" release would give the viewer the option to watch the regular 35mm scope version AND the 70mm blow-up roadshow version!  The 70mm roadshow version has some subtle differences in edits and soundtrack.  It also had an intermission at a cliff hanging moment.  I liked the music cues much more in the roadshow version and found the surround sound of 70mm version(called 6 track stereophonic upon theatrical release) much more emersive. (I think the 35mm scope version was only a mono track which was rechanelled to create stereo and weak surround for previous home versions).

Let's hope this is Blu Rau really is the "Ultimate" edition and includes the 70mm roadshow version...if it is I'll give it 5+ stars!

Cheers