A Movie like "Shutter" really is not at all about being a scary movie.
The Movie "Shutter" is about true other worldly phenomena in which "sometimes" take place with certain people who once lived on the earthly plane. After they later leave it, they can get caught in between certain worlds. And by their vast attachments ranging from a myriad of reasons. They can try to hold onto a person who is still living on the earthly human plane of life.

Due to hollywood truly not understanding the other realms of being.They unfortunately pervert certain "true-isms" in which leaves the viewer stuck within the interpretation that the movie was/is meant to be just another haunted scary movie genre.
This movie was really put together pretty good! It contains alot of realistic proportions/fragments within it.
I only give movies like this their props only when deserving. And this one is well worth it!
When one has/does go through the appropriate training towards having mystical experiences,From years of meditation,Purging/Purification practices of various kind,Mysticism,Obe's,Getting into states of being,Traveling of various types,unfolding into the self,etc;
Then such a person/people can both relate and better grasp these sort of movies. And gain a much deeper appreciation towards certain realities in which particular kind of movies like this possess.

Their is no need for one to go into the sorting out of the movie.Because after an individual grows into their own aspects of being.Such a person/people then learn how to decipher/cipher/jigsaw puzzle the movie together as a whole on their own.
The more that a person/people grow towards the inner/innate depths of their own being. The more an individual learns the importance of working out their own weaknesses/gaining more balance while living their life on the earth plane.
In the long run we are all responsible for our own actions. And one of the necessities for all of us is to evolve into being "selfless" as opposed to leaving the earth in a "selfish" state of being.
This great truth in which is being spoken is very,very,very,important to live up to!

One could break the movie down to the smallest molecule and cell.And the truth spoken would still stay veiled within infinity.
Because we all learn these hidden truths to life by our willingness to want to take responsibility for our choices/actions in which we do/make.
I recommend this to anyone who wants to grow.
A person/people must not so much look at the "selfishness" from a one-sided perspective. Because not only was the woman who was deceased selfish by her attachments. But the man who was still living on the earth plane, was selfish also,by his actions of withholding information. Along with his choice of trying to carry on throughout life living a constant lie by pretending to be innocent in the matter.
The importance of becoming "selfless" is a divine quality in which we all need to develop. Because our actions are not just counted for in the here and now.But what we do calculates into other extensions of our being and lives to still yet come.
Of course everyone always takes from a movie what they choose to take from it. And thats fine too! However,if a person/people want to grow away from their selfish ways,they must first purge themselves from their own vast web of selfish afflictions.
Such appropriate actions of purging opens the doors of ones compassion towards others. Its by sincerily adapting to being compassionate in which eventually dissolves a persons selfishness.

Let one who in which has an open mind grasp this great truth.By allowing themself to shine within the infinite radiance by being both "selfless" and "compassionate".

So Mote It Be!