It sounds almost immoral to say this is a "good" movie. Horror can never be "good".

Everybody knew - since the 1940s - that the of Katyn's perpetrators spoke Russian, but it was silenced because the Soviets were the "good guys", the "allies". And the only one that raised his voice to accuse Moscow, Vladislav Sikorski, had his plane conveniently brought down by "technical failure".

The NKVD henchmen that participated in the massacre (just 20 to 30 agents) knowing the number of executions that they would have to perform (250 per night) for their boss, Lavrenti Beria, asked for German PPK pistols, because their recoil was less painful to their wrists than the heavy Nagant revolver, and because their Tokarev TT-30 was unreliable for the heavy use intended. Besides, the use of German weapons added plausible deniability in case of exhumation of corpses (it seems they could read the future!). The chief NKVD executioner, Vasili Blokhin, a favorite psychopath of Beria, all clad in black leather, is rumored to have killed  - personally - 7.000 of the 22.0000 prisoners. Blokhin and his henchmen "worked" for 10 straight hours, giving us an average of 1 murder every 3 minutes. The blood bath prolonged with cold efficiency (NKVD had a lot of practice since the 1930s purges) for 28 days of April 1940.

That's the real dimension of the horror of Katyn.

And this is only an example of the bigger horror that had visited Russia, Ukraine, the Caucasus, the Baltic republics since 1918. And after 1945, Ukraine (again), Baltic republics (again), Poland, Germany, Romania, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, etc.

Finally, many people miss an important point in this movie, because at the same time that it's a clear indictment against the USSR for genocide against the Polish people, it clearly demolishes the ever present myth that Hitler began the war. It was USSR and Nazi Germany together who began WWII, but UK and France - supposed to be Poland's allies - only declared war against Germany, not the Soviet Union.

Why?

No wonder 1945 wasn't a time for celebration in half of Europe.