By now everyone knows that "The Shootist" was John Wayne's last film.  But contrary to what most reviewers here, (and most people in general) think, he WAS NOT dying of cancer when he made the film, not at least according to the books, "John Wayne, My Father," by Alissa Wayne, and "John Wayne, American" by Randy Roberts and James Olsen.  He was having some major health problems,with his heart, and had a heart valve replaced after the film's shooting wrapped up, but the cancer that took his life was still a year away when he made the film.

That said though, you still come away with the impression that somehow, someway, the Duke knew this was the last one.  John Wayne was not saying merely good-bye to his fans, he was also burying a genre.  The Western has never, since Wayne's death, been a vivable film genre, with very few exceptions.

This film is one of the best.  The casting is super, with hardly a mis-step anywhere.  Harry Morgan's protrayal of the city marshall is bit over the top once or twice, butnothing else.  Wayne, Bacall, and Ron Howard all blend together wonderfully, and you can FEEL the chemistry growing between J. B. Books (Wayne) and Bond Rogers, (Lauren Bacall) during their sniping at each other, helping each other..(Wayne tries to "make it up" to Bacall when he, defending himself, turns her home into a shooting gallery, and he falls in the tub and Bacall rushes to help him.) And as legendary "shootist" Books,now dying of cancer, (as Wayne himself would, just over 2 years later) prepares for his final showdown, he also prepares Bond for saying good-bye, gently telling her "When you see me walk out that door, please Bond, no tears." Oh there are classic John Wayne type lines too..."I won't be wronged, I won't be insulted,I won't be laid a hand on...I don't do these things to others, and I expect the same from them."

But basically, "The Shootist" is the classic story of a man who has outlived his time, and is trying to desperately to "leave the stage" with a certain amount of dignity.  John Wayne should have AT LEAST gotten an Oscar nomination for this film, if not the award itself, but the only "award" he got for it was the generations of fans, many not even born when the film was made, who have treasured this movie.

No actor has ever had a more fitting farewell performance.