This film which is one of my favorite director, David Lynch&iexcl;¯s, is made of monochrome film and talks about real story, John Merrick who was suffering from rare and incurable disease. First of all, the point is that this film is a black-and-white picture, which is extraordinary. It is probably, because the appearance of John is quite shocking and dreadful. So he is called &iexcl;°The Elephant Man&iexcl;±. When he has treated cruelly at the circus as he was seeing his body to the audience, he met Dr. Frederick who helped him to escape from his life like a hell. At this point, it is disprovable why Dr. Frederick helped him. He would be able to think John for an experiment. However, he is relieved of curiosity at his first sight and he becomes to be attracted by his humanity. At last, he thinks deeply and truly about the human dignity. In conclusion, this film talks about the human dignity. Although John was physically disabled person who has a gruesome figure, he was warm-hearted and pure man who really loves a literature. However, people are just surprised at his appearance, they would not have a conversation with him. This film is dealing with a pure heart man who has lived his whole life with people&iexcl;¯s prejudice. Compared with other David Lynch&iexcl;¯s films, it emphasizes dramatic construction, because it is probably like a biography of John Merrick. In this point, it is a unique film as David Lynch who usually has made a film with a peculiar style and atmosphere such as &iexcl;°Eraserhead&iexcl;± which is similar to this film in a monochrome film and weird scenes. this is the most gentle film for David Lynch who always has a specific style which makes audience to understand a film very delicately, so it is easy to understand. It is because story takes the central place in this film that it is not so difficult to understand. Excellent directing, and what is more, performance of John Hurt who played in role &iexcl;°John Merrick&iexcl;±, and Anthony Hopkins who played in role &iexcl;°Dr. Frederick&iexcl;±, both of them are outstanding. It is a film worth watching.