I picked up the "Ultimate Edition" DVD because you can't go wrong for $5.99 and because I hadn't seen this movie since it was released in the theater in 1994.

Most people know the premise -- an ancient "stargate" is discovered, the military wants to use it for its own purposes, and an unconventional Egyptologist in the style of Graham Hancock is recruited to decipher the strange heiroglyphs on the stargate so the military can open the door to new worlds on the other side. There are obvious plot holes and the pacing of the film lags in the transition between the second and third acts, but those are minor detractions from an otherwise fun experience.

Having seen this movie in the theater as a 14-year-old kid the first time around, I didn't have an appreciation for how odd it really is -- Ra is portrayed as a feminine, egotistical maniac who surrounds himself with scantily-clad children like some sort of ancient Michael Jackson. He talks casually of nuking the entire earth ("You have harnessed the power of the atom ... I created your civilization, now I will destroy it.") while his child-servants give him manicures. All of this is accomplished in an ancient Egyptian dialect spoken by Jaye Davidson in his last role. And it works, not only because of the great acting, stunning costumes and amazing sets, but because it is so bizarre.

Buried under the action sequences and impressive visuals -- which include a lot of really cool modern interpretations of Egyptian art -- is a plot that shows people believing in an all-powerful deity, only to discover he's not actually a god and he's not all-powerful. The third act of the movie shows us the consequences of that revelation.

This edition of the DVD also includes an interesting documentary-style look at some of the theories surrounding the Great Pyramid and ancient Egyptian culture, which kind of feels like something that would run on the Discovery Channel on a Sunday afternoon. There's also a commentary track, but be warned -- Roland Emmerich is completely unintelligible no matter how loud you set the volume.