It seems like everything being put on the big screen these days are either "inspired by the extraordinary true story" or "based on the amazing true story" of somebody or some event.  Some of these films are good and some of them are pretty dreadful.  Catch Me If You Can falls into a category all its own.  This movie was such a delight to watch it easily sets the standard for movies that are inspired by true stories.  The cat and mouse chase that Tom Hanks and Leonardo  DiCaprio go through throughout this movie is so engrossing that you almost never want it to end.  To think that this young man, Frank Abagnale, Jr.  played by DiCaprio, actually successfully passed himself off as a pilot, doctor and lawyer all before he turned 21 is so amazing and well worthy of being made into a movie you find yourself in awe of him and his quick witted charm.  Steven Spielberg does a great job of putting this story onto the screen and making it so unbelievably  entertaining and easy to watch that it almost seems effortless for him.  Not to be forgotten is the touching performance turned in by Christopher Walken, who plays the father of Frank and who earned an Academy Award Nomination for his job well done.  If I had to describe this movie with one word it would be fun.  You have so much fun watching this movie that it really does feel like your watching a true story and not some hollywood created generic  filth.  With all the junk movies that are getting thrown in the faces of viewers as of late it is great to know that every once in a while you have a movie like Catch me if you can to look forward to.  The special features on the DVD are something that you have to see if your a fan of this movie or even if your just curious as to how films are made.  The behind the camera segment is very interesting and sheds some light onto the details on the making of this movie and what kind of director Steven Spielberg actually is.  If you like good wholesome entertainment than this movie is for you.