I don't know why at this late in the game I am writing a review, but saw that not one of the
negative reviews say what I am going to, so I think it's worth it. The biggest problem with
this movie, is not the product placement or shallow writing. ***Spoiler alert*** It was that
Carrie accepted a man back into her life after he humiliated her by standing her up at their
wedding. It upsets and disturbs me how many people seem to be able to accept his lame excuse
for why he bailed, and that somehow she had been narcissistic to focus on planning the wedding.
He could have acted like a mature adult and told her about his cold feet, his desire to have a
small wedding; in short, acted like the partner he was supposed to be! How can his betrayal of
her trust be so easily forgiven? I for one found this extremely troubling, because the show was
all about empowerment. Not accepting less. Not accepting a relationship that wasn't a true
partnership. It "undid" the end of the series. The end of the series was perfect because Carrie
was finally able to stop searching for a partnership b/c Big finally stepped up and committed to it.
As he said, "I don't know why it took me so long." Well, of course they had to break it apart to
create drama in the movie, but it was so contrived. I don't think the producers understood(and it looks
like no one who saw it did)how empowerment was the theme of the show, perhaps even a little more so
than the importance of having empowering friends. It is like the show was perfect in it's arc through the seasons to it's perfect metaphorical ending and then they ruined it because they wanted to make money off of a movie. BTW, all other characters  storylines are so undeveloped they seem an afterthought, except perhaps
Miranda. I wasn't offended by the literal bathroom humor. With such an unempowering, depressing movie, I
was happy for any break offered. Also, though not surprised that the Samantha character couldn't remain
monogamous, this time it seemed less empowering, because again, the series left us with a much more
empowering message; that love is the most empowering thing of all. Ruined it. They just ruined it.
I have tried to forget the movie ever happened. Don't let it happen to you! :)