The title will undoubtedly put people of elevated sensibility on high alert but their wariness is unwarranted: this is the wittiest and most literate movie of the past twenty years - fully capable of taxing even the most rarefied of sensibilities.

I first saw it on TV a few years back and it immediately stood out from the general morass; it struck me as the only movie I'd seen that matched the Harold Pinter adaptation of Simon Gray's "Butley" for incisiveness of dialogue. In fact, it surpassed that brilliant screenplay for consistency and continuity of wit as "Butley" had a number of arid patches amongst the overall fecundity.

Not that it has much "plot". If your chief requirement of a movie is "what happens" then this won't fit the bill. Not much "happens". What matters is the talk. Like "Seinfeld", although this is even sharper and more precisely-aimed than that superb series, this talk inhabits a world of its own. "Seinfeld" was signalled out for its "Seinfeld Situations" - outlandish goings on that were supposedly the distinguishing features of the show. This was a mistake; what was unique about the show was not the situations as such but how Jerry and Elaine and George and Kramer TALKED about them. And "Last Days" is the same; like "Seinfeld" it's obsessed with both self and minutiae (which in their cases are possibly the same thing) but its vocabulary is a sort of legalese. Most of the characters are Ivy League graduates (some are lawyers) and they discuss everything in the language of distinctions without differences - an odd combination of abstraction and precision. The "Lady is a Tramp" debate is the most well-known example in this movie but I thought that was the one time the writer stretched the ironic juxtapositions a bit too far; elsewhere they're more naturally founded and even funnier.

Performances are excellent with Kate Beckinsale as an arch-bitch being particularly effective. And yes, I enjoyed the music too; Chic's "Le Freak" and "Good Times" being irresistible despite my most earnest endeavours to contain my enthusiasm. Disco music only seems to really come to life with the appropriate visual complement and this movie provides the look of early-80s decadence with aplomb: it looks terrific. So if you despair at the idiocy of most current movie offerings I can only prompt you not to miss this one.