Anyone who knows anything about me understands that I am the last person on earth to volunteer my money for a film under the dreaded category of "romantic comedy." Just go see the maudlin, juvenile "Wedding Date" to see why. Admittedly, I am a bitter, misanthropic bookworm who spends more time alone than a mole in the ground. But that doesn't mean that I can't see where the good laughs are to be had, and "Hitch," judging from the previews, was certainly one of those places. Thankfully, the promise of the previews was fulfilled. It is only February, but "Hitch" will probably go down as one of 2005's guilty pleasures.

Like the recent summer flick "Harold and Kumar go to Whitecastle," this is one of those few gems capable of helping us take ourselves a little less seriously, laugh at how silly we are and lighten up about the big things: life, love, desire. As with most any comedy -- romantic or otherwise -- "Hitch" boats its share of condescendingly predictable twists and turns, and nearly derails toward the end in a desperate attempt at tying all loose knots with flowery ribbons. The final sequence in which Hitch (Will Smith) pulls out all the stops to land his heartthrob is just preposterous and almost as disastrous as the final, unendurably mawkish scenes of "The Terminal" last year.

But I think that a romantic comedy is the kind of movie you can decide to like or dislike before you ever set foot inside the theater. You have to be reasonable -- a romantic comedy is the last sort of movie you want to burden with ambitious expectations. But, even for a cynic like me who has a lot of trouble following that advice, I have to say that "Hitch" works surprisingly well, despite its typical flaws. Will Smith's alluring confidence is on display here, trading in the malodramatic and brooding pomposity of "I, Robot" for a far friendlier and memorable role as a "love Doctor" capable of turning any man's wildest dreams into reality.

When his services are demanded by Albert (Kevin James), a withdrawn, hopeless and overweight accountant, an unlikely magic ignites on screen between two phenomenally talented actors who both stumbled onto the right script. The scenes in which Hitch shows Albert the moves and the ropes are just hysterical, as when Albert shows off his geeky dance moves or fumbles through a phone call to Allegra Cole, his crush, eventually succumbing to his hilarious clumsiness with a crash. James is the big surprise of the film, but Smith carries himself just as well. His battle against a terrible food allergy is just hysterical, and his disastrous first date with Sara Melas (Eva Mendez) is very funny.

I was surprised at just how consistently entertaining this film was without giving in to the temptations that most films like this can't resist. For the first 80% of the film, we are not always told how to think about what we're seeing or how to feel about the characters and their decisions. Not all the work is done for us. We are allowed to laugh without being told why we're laughing, and that's an achievement most romantic comedies just can't claim. "Hitch" makes for a fantastic date movie and might even give some cynics like myself a glimpse of the bright side. I recommend it.