The acting was impeccable throughout the movie, and every scene with John C. Reilly in it was worthwhile, as he remains one of the most genuinely funny and endearingly believable actors out there.
But the public schools scenes were unbelievable: Take it from someone who knows: In a public school setting nowadays, NO vice principal has the autonomy of time necessary to schedule regular time blocks to counsel students. This is just not what administrators in public school are able to do, even if they were as capable of it as Reilly's loveable character. Forget about it, it ain't happening in the real world--they don't even give the actual COUNSELORS that kind of time, are you kidding me? Any administrator in a government school in America today who has those kind of talents would get chewed up and spat out by the system and would never ever have made it to the ripe old age of Reilly's character. Again, I work in the school system, so I know what I'm talking about.
Also, there were too many scenes at school where Reilly would be out-and-about on campus and there wouldn't be any students around and so he had a lot of time to talk to the protagonist one-on-one. This too was wincingly unrealistic to anyone who works in the public school system.
But the worst problem with this movie was the disturbing scene where the teen characters mixed drugs and alcohol and almost had sex. This scene gave me the creeps as I kept waiting for something to go wrong and the whole movie to turn incongruously macabre. Do I know that more and more American teens engage in this behavior these days? Sure, you bet I do. I see the symptoms, and oftentimes the ravages of it everyday. But I don't need to SEE it, especially not in a movie scene which renders no judgment on it, and thereby could easily lead immature teenage viewers to believe that mixing drugs and alcohol, not to mention teen sex, is something that people can get away with without very soon suffering serious or even dire consequences. And this scene also destroyed the legitimacy of the female character: Initially, it cast the female character as a victim of sexual abuse at school, and therefore the protagonist fat kid was her rescuer. However, the disturbing alcohol-drugs-and-almost-sex scene showed that the girl had, in fact, a wanton alacrity when it came to sex and substance abuse, which undermined her character and made her "rescue" irrelevant and meaningless, pretty much like the rest of the movie. If the movie makers were chasing irrelevance, then they succeeded. But again, I don't need to see it. I've got better things to do.