"Hannibal Lecter's Legacy of Evil Begins Here"... This movie is a psychological thriller about a FBI detective tracking a serial killer. The movie was adapted from the novel "Red Dragon," by best-selling author Thomas Harris, and is the prequel to "The Silence of the Lambs" and "Hannibal."  Michael Mann directed this movie and is well-known for his direction in more recent movies, "HEAT," "The Insider" and "Ali." Right from the very beginning of the film, Mann's style of film work immediately caught my attention and drew me in. His work is best described as having "complex camera movements, meticulous compositions and slick, shadowy imagery." I noticed the intentional use of blue and green colors specifically being repeated throughout the movie as well. Close up shots were used quite often, to pull the viewer into the intense moments on screen. An example of this was when Will Graham ran out of the building after speaking with Hannibal Lector, and the second that he was outside and hit the open air, the camera zoomed in as he bent over to catch his breath. One of my favorite camera shots in the movie was of Graham climbing up a rope hanging from a tree, and the camera shot him from above looking down. Then there was also a great close up and lighting of the scene where the blind woman is walked to her door by a male co-worker, who then brushes something off of her cheek as the killer is watching from his van. I'd have to say that after seeing this movie, Michael Mann is now one of my favorite directors. Here's a great description of this film and the filmwork...
"Manhunter is a cool, dispassionate descent into madness - into a world of unsettlingly bright chemical colors (the azure ocean backdrop to Graham's and his wife's lovemaking) and spatially bizarre mise-en-scenes (the murderer's lair with its arty props and malfunctioning TV). Given its sci-fi veneer and Graham's scary decision to empathize with his quarry in order to catch him, it's a movie that edges into hyperspace - and as such it now looks like a small visionary masterpiece."
I also loved the soundtrack for this movie too, but I'll likely never find this as it's OOP (out of print). :(
A little extra tid bit: The actor William Petersen who played "Will Graham" in this movie, also plays a very similar character, a crime scene investigation expert named "Gil Grissom," in William L. Petersen's hit crime drama TV series "CSI."
Another little bit of information: Italian Cinematographer Dante Spinotti worked closely with Mann on Manhunter as "Director of Photography," and is also a crew member on Brett Ratner's high-profile "remake" of Manhunter - "Red Dragon (2002)" -- Keep an eye out for this new movie release in just a few months, early October!  See this one first though!