Just wonderful!!! Absolutely wonderful!!! For the timeframe of when I remember this enchanting musical, I cannot think of anything better to bring you back to when this movie was first released. How it went from a film that would be considered overbudget and a risk to one of the most beloved of all time!!

Everyone pretty much knows the screen adaptation of the life of Maria Augusta Von Trapp, who went from a postulate with a true desire to give her life in service to God, to becoming the mother of 7 children plus 3 more of her own.

But without taking away from any of the beauty and majesty of this film, there is a harshness in the reality of Maria's real life that is presented in the second disc of this 2-disc offering. That was the part that I became intensely interested in because what Hollywood tends to do is take "creative" license with any story and fit it into whatever fits the mold they want, regardless of the truth. The truth here was rather sobering, and even though I absolutely love this movie, I now know how far away the reality was taken, and how much Hollywood created.

The packaging is of 2 DVD's with the first being the movie itself. Vivid, pure colors with incredible sound. The majesty of the Austrian mountains and villages as well as the story that pulls on the heartstrings and gives you moments to pause and admire. Disc one starts with a commercial about DVD piracy, then goes into a short commercial about purchasing other musical classics available. You are given a short introduction by the ever-elegant Ms. Andrews, who is as gracious and beautiful and charming as always, and then you are brought to the movie.

But it is in the second DVD that we are given much more to enjoy and ponder in both how the movie was made and the realities of how real life was tranformed into reel life.
It goes as such:

1)  My favorite things: Julie Andrews remembers
2)  Julie Andrews and Christopher Plummer reminiscence
3)  On location with The Sound of Music
4)  From Liesl to Gretl: A 40th anniversary reunion
5)  When you know the notes to sing: a sing-a-long phenomenon
6)  A&E Biography: The Von Trapp Family, Harmony and Discord
7)  Restoration comparison
8)  Mia Farrow screen test
9)  Trailers and TV spots
10) Still galleries

It is in this second DVD that you you are treated to how this magnificent, family-friendly movie was made from start to finish. What a story you will be given! Just to mention one story without giving away much, I had always heard that Christopher Plummer had been difficult during the filming, and that he didn't really like working with kids, but because it was rumor, you couldn't pay it much mind. Well, in this documentary, he admits that he was "a boor... difficult" during the initial part of the filming, and that he agreed with W.C. Fields in that he also liked children....cooked. He also had initial disdain for the movie in that he called it "The Sound of Mucas". During this documentary, the fact that he didn't try to hide behind the truth was an interesting insight. Even in the interview that was done with the children, now as adults, they said they knew even back then, that Plummer didn't like them. But Plummer did save himself during the interview, in saying that he eventually came to appreciate the kids. How nice.

For me, the most incredible part of the second disc was the A&E Biography. The Maria in the movie was just a slight shadow of the personality of the real-life Maria Von Trapp, who seemed to be a tortured soul all her life. When Maria's mother died at the fragile age of three, and her father abandoned her, she was left with her guardian uncle, who was physically abusive. She became a precocious child who lived carefree, but one day, she decided to go into a church near her home, and wondering what people were doing who were going into the confessional, found her salvation after three hours of talking to the priest. Wanting to become a nun, and finally feel the life of being within a "family", she tried to live the life of a postulate, but the Reverand Mother realizing Maria's zeal for life, turned her instead to the role of governess for the Von Trapp family. Her love for the Captain, and his desire to support the family, were immensely distorted in the film. Also, Maria's issues with control, and the childrens issues with their subserviance to her, led to a great deal of sadness and despair, which makes for the sobering reality of the real life of Maria Von Trapp. It does not change the beauty of the movie, but you certainly realize how far removed the movie was from the truth. Suffice it to say that liberal license was taken with the story.

This movie itself is pure joy and comfort, and it is just perfect. But it is the insight into how it was made, and the story of the real Maria, that makes for a more pensive thought.