The first time i watched 'City of Ember' I was flipping through the channels on the TV.  Funny as when scrolling threw the digital guide, it's the title that catches your attention.  City of Ember sounded familiar, but I certainly had never watched it.  I turned it on, and was quickly taken in.  I was able to start right at the beginning, which was lucky for me because if it looked good but wasn't at the beginning, I will not watch it until I get to see it in full from the start.

The premise of the movie is somewhat refreshing and original, witch doesn't happen to land itself on a specific age group.  Young or old, this movie will be enjoyed.  There is nothing too raunchy for kids or too stupid and goofy for adults. Set in 2416 A.D. of a post disaster future of Earth, a girl named Lina Mayfleet (Saoirse Ronan-THE LOVELY BONES) finds a box with the numbers '000' on it that she is able to connect with a mystery of extreme importance about the future of her town, and civilization, Ember.  She enlists her friend, Doon Harrow (Harry Treadaway) unraveling a secret about Ember that will save everyones lives as well as bring past events to justice.  An honorable mention needs to go to actor Bill Murray-(GHOSTBUSTERS/LOST IN TRANSLATION) who plays Major Cole of Ember.  His comedy styling blends tremendously well with his more serious nature which he has depicted in recent years.

The styling and creative direction the film takes is done with great detail and imagination.  Everything looks and feels old, used over and over.  Imagine 'Blast from the Past' without the 90s.  The energy of the film only grows and rarely skips a beat.  As a person of 24yrs old, I rarely can become interested in a movie with kids as leads, but if the acting is there, I'm good.  I would also like to point out how well done the food element of this was done.  I was able to really grasp how important food was through the great cinematography and the graphic design of the labels.

City of Ember deserves better recognition and is a must watch.  Even if you don't love it, you are guaranteed to accept it as a good movie.  The only reason I do not give City of Ember 5 stars is because I only give 5 stars to the great pieces of cinema and film.  City of Ember thought has some solids legs for growth in popularity if given the chance, and also could go a few more rounds with sequels-which would be very easy to accomplish.