"They don't make 'em like they used to!"
As regards "For Love of the Game", the above comment applies to both movies and  baseball players! Old-fashioned, straight-ahead storytelling, complimented  by solid performances, extremely  convincing on-the-field action, excellent  photography and more than competent direction by Sam Raimi, make for a  resoundingly entertaining movie...even if you're not much of a baseball  fan.
Perhaps the best thing going for the film is its truly innovative  integration and balance of rapid-fire on-going game vs.  relationship  development flashback elements, allowing the viewer to "get inside the  athlete's head" in a way no other movie in recent memory  does.
"For Love" thusly manages to put a signature spin on the  subjective experience of a great athlete's swan song by sharing &amp;  highlighting the stark contrast between the external precision &amp;  perfection of the real-world game in progress, and the turbulent, highly  personal, inner-world of the passions that drive him.
Kevin Costner,  certainly NOT the greatest actor in the world, literally shines in the  mother of all tailor made roles. Kelly Preston shows us a highly focused  intensity, in just what may be her best on screen appearance to date! John  C. Reilly, although cast as the  solid-as-a-rock-always-there-when-you-need-him-on-the-sidelines Catcher,  plays to the hilt a supporting role, in every sense of the word.
There  are moments in "For Love", however, that seem a touch too  maudlin, trying just a little too hard to jerk that extra tear. A few of  these melancoly scenes are drawn out to the point of making the viewer  self-conscious and put upon. These occasional excesses are easily  overlooked, however, in light of the films many strengths and its overal  highly engrossing nature.
TECHNICAL NOTE: Amazon rated picture quality of  the Widescreen DVD version a lackluster 3.5...which leads me to imagine  that either they reviewed a defective copy, or that there were problems  with early prints that were subsequently corrected, because the picture  quality I observed was among the best of my entire DVD collection !