All right I'll admit I love Antonio Banderas to begin with but who knew that anyone could make a cartoon charecter somewhat 'sexy'??? (I think Angelina Jolie might come in a close 2nd for this one in Shark Tale). Puss in Boots is the most hillarious charecter ever created, and the fact that he's got a Zorro Complex just completley add to it. There's a striking similarity between the puss fight scene in the Castle and Zorro's fight scence in the hacienda (Mask of Zorro) down to the music.

  Donkey is absolutley hilarious and actually puss is a great charecter for him to play off of. I thought I was going to die when he's in the carriage with Fiona and Shrek.

  Fairy Godmother and Charming are great additions too. Fairy godmother is deffinatley hillarious, espically when she sings "HOlding out for A Hero".

  All the other great charecters from the original appear again including the Ginerbread man, 3 blind mice, the Muffin man and who can forget Pinnochio, who steals a few scenes in this movie. Dragon makes a nice apperabce too during the credits.

  Other new additions in this one include Mongo (the giant Ginerbread man), Fiona's parents, The ugly Step-sister and Joan Rivers.

  The movie also spoofs LA quite nicely mainly Rodeo Drive which now includes stores like Versarchery, Farbucks, Friar Fat boy, & Abercrombie and Witch. I personally love when the farbucks get destroyed all the customers just run across the street into another farbucks...LOL

  The Music in the movie was amazing. Everything from Counting Crows "Accidentally in Love" to Puss in Boots and Donkey's Livin' La Vida Loca is perfectly fit in to the movie and animated very well.

  Shrek 2 is one of the best movies I've seen in a long time. The voice casting in it is amazing and the animation fabulous. Teenagers and adults will actually probably like it more than small kids (it's filled with inuendo). In fact the first time I saw it was with 6 other teens (14-21 years old) and we never stopped laughing. I can honestly say I laughed just as hard the 4th time I saw it!!!!!!!!!

p.s.- Can Animated charecters win for Best Actor???