A year ago I bought "The Rose" and wondered if Neil Diamond's bid for big-screen success ever made it to DVD.  Then I saw a used copy going, to my horror, for 54 freakin' bucks at a local music/video store.  Fortunately this rerelease came out without my taking the very silly plunge I am all too capable of.

I like Neil OK, but not so much that I could ever let myself give this four or five stars.  On the other hand, this movie is far from the disaster critics said it was.  Diamond is no, well, Laurence Olivier, but in my view does nothing so bad to deserve "winning" the Golden Raspberry award for Worst Actor of 1980.

As for Olivier, I gotta wonder why he did this movie.  I have to agree that his Yiddish accent is spotty at best.  Sometimes he successfully evokes the old men back in my synagogue, one of whom actually smacked my friend for mispronouncing some Hebrew while praying at my Bar Mitzvah.  (Good times.)  Other times the accent slides into something from Ren and Stimpy.  Also, his character and that of Neil's wife are so one-dimensional and humorless that "Jess Robin"'s choice between his cantor past and the lure of pop stardom is telegraphed from the outset.  In my experience, Orthodox Jews can be exceptionally witty and multi-dimensional as well as rigid and disciplined.  You'd never know it from this script.

Much better written is Lucie Arnaz's role as a pushy, clever agent Neil meets in L.A. and falls in love with.  She is definitely the life of the movie.

Nice little moments:  unspoken awkwardness when Arnaz proudly presents Diamond with a ham dinner he can't eat; Olivier reaching up to kiss the Mezuzah absent from Neil's L.A. doorway.  Scary little moments:  "partying" with Franklin Ajaye and homies with a song about...the Robert E. Lee!; the bearded, whiskey-bent and heck-bound Neil running off to wow the yahoos in a COUNTRY & WESTERN bar (big song:  "You Are My Sunshine"!)

Of course, the best scene is when Olivier tears his clothes and cries out the Hebrew prayer of mourning when he finds Neil living with shiksa Arnaz.

Watch for Paul Nicholas, then only 2 years removed from his own Top 10 hit "Heaven On the 7th Floor", as a prissy pop star, and Ernie Hudson as Neil's antagonist in a really cringeworthy scene in the early going.

But don't watch for jazz.  There's not a note of it to be found here.  But "The Pop Singer" wouldn't have the same ring to it now, would it?