This movie is very boring with long long moments of James Franco walking around the streets looking depressed.  I don't know much more about his character and the subject of this film, Hart Crane, than before I watched it.  James Franco is a good actor, but he needs a lot of help as a screenwriter and director in my opinion.  I've seen a couple of his other short films and they are all mediocre at best.  There is no real narrative for the story, very little dialogue to explain much of anything.  The few moments that there is any story exposition through dialogue and conversations with other characters are the best scenes of the film, I wish there was much more of that. Perhaps there could have been scenes of discussions with other writers or artists about the nature of art or the need to write, to express oneself and interpret the meaning of life and experience.  Instead what much of the film is is James Franco emoting silently while walking aimlessly for long periods in various cities around the world or while sitting in front of a typewriter and staring at a blank page.  We know he's depressed and suicidal, but little is explained about Hart Crane's relationships with various male lovers or his family.  Gay men in the 1920's and 30's were invisible in society and kept very low profiles and were limited to clandestine meetings behind closed doors.  I'm sure that was a very lonely way to live and the film hints at this as one of the reasons for Hart's incredible loneliness and sadness, but since we never get a real conversation between any of his lovers, we are left with a couple of sex scenes and don't know who any of these men passing through Hart's life are.  Watching the film feels more like watching a painting at a museum while wearing a headset listening to Hart Crane's poetry with a single character for 80% of it.  A much superior movie about writers is HOWL also starring James Franco as Allen Ginsberg and the famous poem he wrote.  There is so much more emotion and life in that movie than in Broken Tower, which just feels lifeless and void of emotion to me.  In HOWL during James Franco's reading of the poem throughout the filmmakers did something genius which was to use animated imagery to interpret the poem, which really brought it to life for me and helped me to understand what Ginsberg was trying to express.  In Broken Tower, we just see James Franco reciting in a flat monotone void of any emotion Hart Crane's poetry and it's difficult to understand much of it.  Skip Broken Tower and save your money and time and watch HOWL instead.