"Little Miss Sunshine" is a delightful, quirky summer comedy starring Toni Collette and Greg Kinnear. Toni and Greg plays the married couple Sheryl and Richard. They are raising two children together Olive (Abigail Breslin) and Dwayne (Paul Dano). It is implied in the film but never really said for sure that Richard isn't the children's father. The film does make a brief mention that Sheryl is divorced. Alan Arkin is the irreprehensible but loveable foul-mouthed, heroin snorting grandfather who lives with the brood because he was kicked out of his retirement home. Sheryl's brother Frank (Steve Carrell) comes to live with the family after he is discharged from the mental institution after he had attempted suicide. This family puts the fun in dysfunctional with all their insecurities and other emotional issues that plagues them.

The premise of the film has the entire family go on a road trip to California where Olive had been declared winner of a local beauty pagent by default and is one of the contestants for the final competition in Redondo, California. Most of the film revolves around the car trip. All of the family's neuroses comes to head. Everything that could go possibly go wrong on a car trip did go wrong for Sheryl and Richard.

This was a terribly funny film and a lot of the credit goes to Alan Arkin as the heroin snorting grandpa who steals every scene he is in. Normally teenage angst in most films are over the top and so stereotypical but Paul Dano's performance as the Nietzsche-loving Dwayne was spot on. For most of the film, Dwayne was silent because he took a vow of silence until he achieved his goal. Despite his pessimistic view of his family, he still loved them. Steve Carrell was hilarious as Frank. I loved the scene where he matches wit with Richard in the VW van. Toni Collette was wonderful as Sheryl. She has quickly become of my favorite actresses. The films she choses to work in are impeccable and as Sheryl her performance certainly deserves to be recognized by the Golden Globes and/or the Oscars. Finally there is the irresistable Olive who is nothing more than a bundle of energy and is a real treat to watch in every scene. Her scenes in the last ten minutes of the film were hilarious.

"Little Miss Sunshine" is proof that summer films don't need special effects or big name actors. "Little Miss Sunshine" proves that all you really need is a really good script and actors who are able to stay true to form as the characters they embody.