The filmed version of the famously shocking and successful bestseller is a little tamer than its literary parent, but still very racy and excting viewing. Even today the frankness of some of the stories is astounding - and all the moreso because this film was made in the '50s.

Firstly, the photography is sublime. The Maine locations are beautiful and the natural perfection of the town is an excellent and jolting counterpoint for the seedy storylines in which the town's participants are involved. All of the film's exteriors (except, very joltingly, for Lana Turner's scenes) was shot on location. The fact that Turner's scenes were obviously shot on a soundstage when the rest of the film was not is one of the few aspects that does date this film.

Single mom Lana Turner (in goregeous costumes and looking glamorously radiant throughout - in fact, far too glamorous for the part) is having problems with her clever but sexually curious teenage daughter Diane Varsi, who is involved with the hunky but smothered mommy's boy Russ Tamblyn. The daughter's best friend, lovely Hope Lange, daughter of Lana's cleaner, comes from the wrong side of the tracks and has her own problems, not least of which is her lecherous stepfather (Arthur Kennedy). Like most of the characters, Turner has a secret from her past, which initially inhibits her relationship with an unvconventional school principal.

"Peyton Place" is a long but riveting soap operatic film, still compulsively watcheable today. The only flaw is the lovely Lana, who, despite her own sordid private life which assured the film its great success, is simply too glamorous and thus miscast as a small-town single mother.  Her inclination toward artifice was used to great effect in "Imitation of Life" a few years later, but in this particular part Lana is plainly ineffective with her Hollywood gloss and her "big" acting style.

The younger actors are all excellent and there are many moments to commend this interesting and visually goregeous film.