I watched this movie a million times and made my mom watch this movie with me the other day.  I told her that it was a highly underrated movie and she began watching it with the assumption it was a crappy one.  She asked me 'what is so good about a movie revolving around guys finding ugly girls for a dogfight' I told her it was a romantic movie for a reason and that only 1/4 of the movie was based around the dogfight.

We watched and my mom became so intrigued.  She smiled and laughed, she thought the awkward kiss was awkward and charming.  When Eddie comes back from Vietnam she comments on how different he looks and at the end with that heartbreaking hug she just stared. After the movie she said that this movie was very nice and not what she thought.

Eddie (River Phoenix) is a marine about to be shipped off to Vietnam, he's naive in his own way, he curses every other word and thinks that he is ready for what's to come.  Him and his buddies stage a dogfight and have to find an ugly date to take and see if they win.  Eddie isn't having luck and stumbles into a cafe and spots Rose (Lili Taylor).  He charms and b.s's her to come along. The dogfight begins and Eddie has second thoughts about the whole thing.  Rose finds out about the dogfight and Eddie tries to redeem himself by taking her out.  What ensues is awkward yet charming  and lovely to watch.  He comes back a torn soldier, using guns to try and solve problems, which leads you back to think of the conversation they had that one night. The ending is bittersweet, makes you want to cry and smile.  No words were necessary for this scene although you almost wish there were.  The painful look in Eddie's eyes and the understanding look in Roses' is enough.

This movie needs to be re-released because it didn't get the credit it deserved what so ever.  The acting, even with the smaller characters, was top notch and both River and Lili gave so much dimension to the people they were playing. I love the naiveness of Rose's character, she is so aware but still so naive and hopeful.

All the movies i watched with River he always blew my mind at the potential. I believed he was those people, it's very rare for an actor to be able to play so many different types of characters without people comparing them.  You forgot about him being River Phoenix you just thought of his character on screen.

I recommend this movie to everyone. It's a chick type of movie but I believe any guy would enjoy this as well due to the crude humor and such.