Ok OK, why did I watch this? I gave the last 2 previous films 1 star each (wanted to give half a star to both to be honest).

I must say, I was pleased to find out they weren't carrying on with the 'Fairy Secret' storyline, which was a sequel to 'Fashion Fairytale'. This is not the same girl, or is it?! The Fashion Fairytale Barbie said she 'acted' in all the Barbie films...confusing really!

Upon first seeing the cover of this DVD, I was yet again disgusted, "Another 'Plastic' and superficial tale" I thought. I was also angry they were keeping at the stories with these superficial plots and also Barbie's new look and voice judging by the glamourous DVD art. But I gave it a shot anyway.

Upon the first few minutes I was pleasantly surprised, it wasn't as bad as I thought. Yeah, I did not like the tacky 'Princess School' idea. But at least It didn't seem totally fashion related.
Boy oh boy..was I wrong! It wasn't too long into the story that it suddenly got plastic. It happened so fast I couldn't keep up! One second you see the girl in her house, next second you see her whisked off to 'Princess School' on a carriage and you see the area where she lives...graffiti and all, looks like a very run-down area. Then it gets plastic, the annoying fairies are back again too! This time they do sneaky deeds to bad characters and also help out with outfits which instantly disappointed me.

Overall the story WAS Better than the previous 2. I don't know if Mattel were trying, but it was better. But still not good enough. I did like how they told Barbie 'No one can make you inferior but yourself'. Which was good for children, but they did not incorporate it in a nice enough way as there was still so much nastiness and bullying towards Barbie as they told her this and even after they said it. Which didn't make that moral stand out. I think the film had too much bullying and cattiness.

I also did not like how Barbie was so willing to just go to this 'Charm School' when her adopted mother appeared sick and Barbie seemed to be the only income supporting the family. It was really unrealistic and just upsetting. It didn't seem so safe either, considering it looks like they live in an area of crime judging by the look of the area they live in.

I give the film 2 stars as at least it wasn't completely fashion related as the previous 2 and the fairies weren't so prominent in this film. But still not enough heart and morals to give it any higher sadly.

As an adult, I will always remember and treasure the original tales I felt taught children good lessons. It was not about how to do things 'properly' and being 'perfect' like the messages come across in this film, but about standing up yourself, being brave, kind, caring and doing things for friends.

I could tolerate the new look, new voice and just overall 'NEW' Barbie they are marketing if they made her role model material and not 'marketing' material for money. I really miss Kelly Sheridan, she made the stories more 'Magic'. But even adding her voice to the last 3 films won't do anything to these I'm afraid.

I'd personally suggest the original stories up to The Diamond Castle (I don't think Thumbelina, Mermaid Tale or the 3 Musketeers were very good). They taught great morals for girls I think!