I thoroughly enjoyed this film and have since I was a wee lad. It is an old fashioned epic but unlike many that were featured during this era it eskews Christian themes or Biblical main characters and instead provides a figure from the waning days of the Roman Republic. That it plays fast and loose with historical details and invents characters and motivations out of whole cloth is certainly true, but I feel it also misses the point. It's quality as a historical document is not what is being considered here, but whether it is a good movie. I answer yes without hesitation.

The cast is for the most part great:

Kirk Douglas as our main character does a fine job I feel. Some have claimed he was too wooden, but I am not sure just how much nuance or range is required for this role. He was a slave trained as a gladiator and seeks free himself and others...pretty straightforward motivation. He brings a physical intensity to the role that is entirely convincing and I find his scenes with Jean Simmons feel authentic and moving. I would say the performance is at least on par with Crowe's in "Gladiator" or Gibson's in "Braveheart", movies of comparable scope and theme.

By comparison Olivier is pretty roundly praised in the reviews I have read and initially I felt the same way generally. But on subsequent viewings his scenery chewing and affectation becomes a tad grating. In the movie throughout he walks a continual line between acting and overacting, with every line punctuated by a dramatic pause or a rapid turn of the head. He is fine actor no doubt, but I don't find this to be one of his best performances.

Peter Ustinov and Charles Loughton are the complete opposite and an absolute delight throughout. They steal each scene they individually are in, and when they are onscreen together the movie just soars. They allow for just a touch of humor and wit in what is a rather painful film, especially towards the end.

Jean Simmons is great given what little she has to do. As many have noted, she and Douglas have great chemistry and she provides a real sense of pathos in her bearing and the use of her eyes (at least she did for me). The scene she shares with Olivier towards the end was mesmerising, more for her subtle underplaying than for his mugging.

The rest of the cast are fine for the most part, aside from what many have noted in the woeful miscasting of Anthony Curtis. I also cringe each time the dreadful actor playing Caesar (his name escapes me)speaks a line. But the rest are fine with a special mention for a wonderfully evil Charles McGraw as Marcellus.