I first watched this movie decades ago, but it still haunts me.
As most people say, this is an epic. Yes, but it brings us into the very heart of events that turned the wheel of history: the rise and the blind force of the masses in the form of Communism, which was rather inhumane and devastating.
Communism was at first most ruthlessly suppressed by the authority, just in the way the Minster of Justice relentlessly taking advantage of the school girl, Lara. And then Communism grew fast taking hold of even the students including the boyfriend of Lara who later became a most furious Red Army General.
It isn't great cinematography that it is all about. Beautiful settings, yes, with literally thousands soldiers fighting in the snowy battlefields plus poetic scenes of calm and serene countryside in Russia etc. There are also round and forceful characters representing various aspects of human nature interweaving these epic changes giving the story a lot of drama and substances. 
We have Lara's ex-boyfriend, the Red Army General who gave up virtually everything to fight for and who eventually died for his ideology; the pleasure seeking Minister of Justice or the "flesh", whose only concern was to save his own skin; Dr Zhivago was a poet with a soul who suffered most; and the doctor's half brother, the opportunistic secret policeman, or the real winner, who fished in the troubled water, riding the great tides and became a respected and powerful General in the new regime; and Lara the weak, she managed to survive but was deprived virtually of everything, love and daughter and the latter landed in an orphange without knowing her own history, bestowed with a deep sense of mistrust... 
And the whole story was wrought up beautifully by great cinematography for one thing, and Dr Zhivago's poetry for another, and above all, by Lara's Theme played by a balailika which their daughter learned to play by instinct: it sounds so sad and irking. This is just too pricy a lesson. 
I haven't read the original novel by Pasternak who had won the Nobel Prize. But judging from how David Lean handled " A Passage to India" and also how the story unfolds itself, there is little doubt that the novel is treated fairly and squarely: it's as good as, if not better than "Crime and Punishment".