Tombstone or Wyatt Earp? This seems to be the prevailing comparision. But why? Some reveiwers have referenced Kasdan's brillant western masterpiece Silverado to bulk up this movie and to justify the poor choice of Cosner's Earp.  From my perspective, other than his portrayl as the dead body in THE BIG CHILL, SILVERADO was the only movie of value Cosner has ever been involved in.  His  portrayl of Earp is as exciting as his portrayal of the dead body in THE BIG CHILL. (Which was cut from the theatrical release. Maybe his choice of charactor was to wooden for that film as well?) One reviewer has stated WYATT EARP in not an "action film" like TOMBSTONE.  They are right. Cosner's Earp does not need to engage in gunplay to kill. He can kill his opponents the same way he does the viewers, bore them to death.

The running time of the original theatrical release was approximately three hours.  The DVD release has been shortened, but unfortunately it can not be edited enough to add life to a listless charactor portrayal.

Tombstone on the other hand moves at a quick pace, protrays the importance of family, honor, integrity, and most importantly friendship.  I've read reviews knocking Val Kilmer's portrayal in Tombstone as Doc Holiday in an attempt to bulster Quaid's performance in Wyatt Earp.  Acting next to Cosner, any sign of life is an improvement. So Quaid certainly looks better when not compared directly on screen with Kilmer.  But  Kilmer's Doc in TOMBSTONE examplifies and highlights friendship as the motive for Doc's riding with the Earps.

The legend of Doc Holiday and his feared reputation, is more aptly shown in Tombstone than in WYATT EARP. Doc's reputation as a killer, though not as widely known today as when he lived, far eclipes that of Wyatt. And had he lived past 36, he might have been the central figure of the legend of the OK Corral.

The Earp legend is in part due to Earp's living until 80 and befriending film makers in Hollywood.  On Jan. 13, 1929 Wyatt Earp died in Los Angeles at the age of 80. Cowboy actors Tom Mix and William S. Hart were among his pallbearers. Earp was not a lawman for a great part of his life.  In fact, he was more successful as a gambler, prospector, real estate investor and entreperneur.  But we don't see many movies of successful business men, however, Cosner may have exploered that side of Earp and attempted to portray that throughout the movie.  That would provide some explaination for his wooden portrayal.

So the time in Tombstone, AZ is the highlight of Earp's lawman career, and as shown in the movie WYATT EARP, why waster three hours of your life on the rest.  Besides, TOMBSTONE has the beautiful and senuous Dana Delany playing Josie, the woman with whom Wyatt would end his days.