Despite distorting and omitting certain factual details, "Glory Road" has made it to the end of its road to glory. Although James Gartner's movie about Coach Don Haskin's 1966 Texas Western College's NCAA Men's Division 1 basketball championship team over exaggerated the racism and discrimination the black players felt at the time, it is a phenomenal film in the same league as Denzel Washington's legendary "Remember the Titan's".

The film depicts Hall of Fame Coach Don Haskin's efforts to win the NCAA Men's Division 1 Basketball title by recruiting black players instead of whites, who were heavily recruited by the nation's top basketball schools such as Kansas and Kentucky. The movie shows Coach Haskin's rigorous training programs and controversial rules used to integrate his black and white players into a single team with a common goal. It contains scenes of racial tension and hatred, much of which was blown out of proportion, throughout the season until the NCAA finals where Texas Western beats Kentucky's team of five whites with five blacks. The movie inspires emotions that would bring a tear to anyone's eyes, whether the tears are tears of hate caused by the discrimination the team had to put up with or tears of joy caused by watching the perseverance and dedication of the Miners. Although a 5 star movie, one cannot deny the dramatic license regarding racial scenes that may have been taken a step too far.

First of all, the movie depicts Don Haskin's as someone who rattles chains and has the guts to break social norms by recruiting seven blacks in one year. The truth is, while the movie is set during Texas Western 1965-66 season, Don Haskins started coaching at Texas Western in 1961 and the school had been recruited black players as far back at 1956. In fact, most of the 1965-66 team was together the year before. While the movie depicts the Texas Western basketball team as if they wouldn't go anywhere if not for Coach Haskins heavy recruiting of black athletes, the Miners had been doing fairly well the past few years, going 18-6 in the 61-62 season during Coach Haskins first year and 18-9 in the 64-65 season, the season preceding the year the movie takes place.
Another dramatization worth mentioning is the scene right before the championship game where Coach Haskins motivates his team by claiming he plans to put an end to racial discrimination in sports by playing only the black players in the finals game tomorrow. However, in an interview with the real Don Haskins, he states, `I really didn't think about starting five black guys. I just wanted to put my five best guys on the court. I just wanted to win the game." The team had started five black players before and it had worked well for them. Also, in 1956, the University of San Francisco won the NCAA championship with 5 black players. Cincinnati and Loyola of Chicago each won the NCAA championship in 1962 and 1963 respectively, each with 4 black players.

However, one should question whether or not these racial exaggerations really matter. After all, "Glory Road" is distributed by Walt Disney Pictures, so isn't Disney simply upholding its reputation as the ultimate children's entertainer by not only distributing an inspiring movie but a movie that teaches future generations about the crimes of racism and discrimination? The exaggerations and historical bloopers deserve a mention, but shouldn't take anything away from how inspirational and moving the story is. The racial aspect of it just makes it that much more inspirational. "Glory Road" isn't just a movie to be watched, it's an experience to be lived.