I never heard of this film until two days ago when I looked at the new DVD releases for this week. After reading the reviews on this site and at [...] I headed to the video store, they had five copies but only one in stock. I asked the clerk if she had any feedback, she said yes, she saw it last night and was the best film she watched this year. Needless to say, I rented that copy and watched it last night.

Since the other reviews deal with the storyline, here's my general impression. It's a gritty film with superb acting, probably just a notch below films like "Taxi Driver" or "In Cold Blood". It will keep your attention for the entire 105 minutes even though the film is mostly dialogue and is filmed indoors at one location. The female lead is a 14 year old who I believe was 15 in real life, she gives a performance that if the world was fair, she would win best actress.

For young filmakers the bonus features are really nice since they deal completely with movie making and are about an hour long. The producer talks about how the basic story idea came about, finding a screenwriter and working out a first draft. Next came securing the right director and holding auditions, especially for the young actress. The film was shot in 18 days for under a million dollars and was finished about July 2004. They secured a prime screening slot at Sundance, a midnight showing. However, they were late starting because the Dolby Sound went out and then people outside waiting in line realized there was too many people for the number of seats. The Sundance people became perturbed, but eventually everything was fixed and viewing went off. However, as soon as the film ended all of the studio people immediately left the theater, they soon learned it was because they all wanted to call their studios for permission to sign the film.

Within two days of the Sundance showing they had sold the international rights and later after pitching the film to ten American studios, six wanted the film. The studio had to agree not to change a single frame of the film, which was the case. However, once it was in the hands of a studio they were concerned about the trailer, which is included, and if they would giveaway too much of the storyline. They were completely happy with the trailer.

The director also talked about the film's technical aspects, digital coloring, the work of the focus puller, and the music score, background colors, etc. How music in a drama is used mostly to heighten a situation or to hide something, and in this film there is only nine minutes of music including the opening and closing credits. They wanted the dialogue to be uncluttered so they used a lot of ambient sound instead of music. Also, they shyed away from pulling in on the actor's face to add drama, but instead they used lighting to highlight the intensity. They chose to darken the actor's face but without darkening the background, however to accomplish this required a lot of trial and error. Many of the techniques used actually went unnoticed by me and it wasn't until seeing the bonus features and the director bringing them to my attention did I realize what they had done.

The film opened in the U.S. fifteen months after Sundance, April 14, 2006 premiering in New York and Los Angeles on 50 screens. It did better than any other limited release for that number of screens. This explains why I never heard of it, I don't believe it even played in the Baltimore area. Anyway, the DVD is now available and it's a film any serious movie goer should see, I also highly recommend the film for parents of teenage daughters, but it should be a must for their daughters to see as well.