Well said Lawrence Ryan, "An Affair to Remember" is a story that is well worth remembering for all people in every time or place, and thank you, I for one am one of those girls who like to see Real men around, those who are strong enough to wait six months, or longer, for the girl they love, the girl who loved him enough to want to give her whole heart and not just a one night stand, or even a one cruise stand ! The girl who was wonderful enough to give everything or nothing.
My mother loved this story, it was very emotional for her, for she too, like Terry McKay, had been in a horrible accident, leaving her nearly bed ridden the rest of her life. My Mother called herself, Genu, after Nicki's grandmother, she was like her, having to stay within the bounderies of her small world, as Nicki's grandmother called her beautiful home in France, where Nicki introduced her to Terry McKay.
Though mostly bedridden my mother managed to homeschool me, and my brother and sister, and I will always be grateful for what she gave us. My mother is gone now, but she left her children with an understanding of life that will guide us wherever we go, principles that will guide us whatever situation we find ourselves in, and a love of a timeless classic, "An Affair to Remember." {note: my Dad stayed by her side, too, till the day she died}!
My comment to a reviewer on the 1994 remake, "Love Affair":
Yes, nearly the exact same script, but that isn't good enough, when they start changing main issues, such as the main couple getting in bed together before they get married, is changing everything; wasn't Terry McKay a good girl? And wasn't the whole point of the story that she was able to stand off the playboy so well, and by so doing win his heart?
If you ask me that is the kind of heart to win, one that loves us for ourselves, even without giving him a thrill in bed before he has committed himself to her .
And because of her example he learned something wonderful, that he too was actually strong enough to control the desire for such thrills for a whole six months just to show he was indeed worthy of her!
I don't care if the movie doesn't show such things explicitly, you still are being told what's going on, and is that really what we want our children to learn? Sex without committment?
Committment is the whole theme, and point of, "An Affair to Remember".
Elizabeth Ridgeley