"Anne of Green Gables" is just a beautiful, beautiful film, well crafted, carefully thought out, and superbly acted. There really isn't anything bad that I can think to say about it; it's an amazing, magical, and altogether unforgettable film. I saw it for the first time when I was about nine or ten years old; now, at seventeen, I have come to appreciate its depth and innocence so much more. When I was younger and used to watch it, I loved laughing at Anne's funny and endearing antics in the first half of the movie; now that I'm older, I still love that aspect of the movie, but I can also better understand and appreciate Anne's blossoming into a beautiful young woman. I would say that any girl 12 or older can get the full feel of this movie, and believe me, all of those girls should do so if they want a wonderful and refreshing movie experience unlike any other (and that is the truth).
"Anne of Green Gables" is truly an engaging story of our beloved heroine Anne Shirley, a fiery, redheaded 13-year-old orphan looking for someone to love her (and put up with her!) Her whimsical outlook on life and her fascination with fantasy and imagery has made many people turn away out of frustration and sometimes even lack of heart. However, little Anne is given her own miracle when she is chosen to live with a family in the gorgeous town of Avonlea and ends up with Marilla and Matthew Cuthbert quite by accident. The sweet and soft-spoken Matthew is immediately taken to her, but Marilla does not exactly intend to let this talkative, imaginative little girl open the key to her hidden affections. Fortunately, Anne manages to worm her way into everyone's heart, and it is not long before the stable love she is finally receiving begins to help her come into her own as a friend, student, and person. As she eventually comes to understand, accept, and grow through sometimes rocky friendships, difficult neighbors, and competition from her peers, Anne's transformation from a somewhat gawky little girl to a substantial woman of intelligence, maturity, and strength of character finally seeps through, leaving the viewer feeling as if they truly witnessed the positive change and growth of this charming young girl.
Overall, I would rate this movie as easily being one of the most magical and amazing films of all time. Megan Follows comes through beautifully and brings the title character of "Anne of Green Gables" to life in her own unique way. She is a notable actress with great potential and has a seemingly flawless ability to enter Anne's world of confusion, passion, and success. Colleen Dewhurst and Richard Farnsworth give strongly acted and emotionally accurate performances as Marilla and Matthew. Also rounding out the main cast are Jonathan Crombie as Anne's faithful and somewhat desperate admirer Gilbert Blythe (you will fall absolutely in love with his character); Schuyler Grant as Anne's faithful best friend Diana Barry; and the priceless Patricia Hamilton as Rachel Lynde, Anne's busybody neighbor. The lighthearted and tender story intertwined with the scenery and gorgeous shots of Avonlea make this a perfect choice for the entire family. Sadly, there just aren't very many films like this being made right now; we all know what the dominant themes of today's movies are, and none of them come even close to what you see in "Anne of Green Gables." This is a gem of a movie and certainly one to include in your video collection. If you like any kind of movie about family, courage, love, and all that good stuff, then "Anne" might be the very best you could get. I recommend every piece of this heartfelt film; it is time and money VERY well spent and is the heart and soul of innocence and love.