I had a great time watching this DVD.  It was cool to hear the bands thoughts(mostly Trey) and coversations on things such as their first gig, and the ever-present associations with The Grateful Dead.
All of this was of course interlaced with Phish's music which sounds great.  The DTS and Dolby 5.1 soundtracks were indistinguishable to me, but that's ok because they both sounded excellent.  Complete songs are only included in the bonus materials.  The music in the film is just segments.  Of course it wouldve been nice to have complete songs in the film itself but for time reasons I'm sure they only include segments but it's constant throughout the film as you would expect, and as I said sounds great.
I agree with several previous reviews that it would've been nice to have more input from other band members during the film.  Hell, I could've watched this for 5 hours!  But I understand that they gotta keep the movie relatively short.  In a perfect world it wouldve been great to see all the band members get as much time as Trey and have this be a 3-DVD set.  Even still, the film does a nice job conveying the personalities of the different band members.  You definately feel like you can relate to them by the end of the movie.
Alot of people have knocked the director for his choice of Phans that he interviewed.  Again, with a longer movie maybe he could've done more but I can't really blame him.  These are some of the people that go to see Phish, like them or not.  And if you know nothing about Phish(as this director didn't when he took this film)...these are the types of people that will stand out and be memorable to you.  I think it's great..I mean you won't get these types of characters when Britney Spears comes to your town.(except maybe the frat-boys interviewed who would likely be there after some pre-teens).  It's unique to the jamband scene so why not show it in the movie.
All in all this is a truly enjoyable film.  For me it was too short, but for the non-Phish fan who is just watching it as a rockumentary maybe it's perfect.  And I do think this film could convert those who haven't heard Phish...perhaps I'll try it on some of my friends.