Andy Garcia's Lost City is very much a tour de force on the Cuban Revolution of 1958 and how that country "achieved" the condition it's been in ever since.  In this respect, the film compares very well with David Lean's treatment of Pasternak's Dr. Zhivago.  Apart from the obvious differences in time and place, Garcia's work centers its setting on the lost Cuban cabaret scene, with musical and dance numbers that will almost certainly never be matched.  This fills the same function as Lean's majestic cinematography of Moscow and the Urals in Zhivago and in each case the focal point really is the film.

That isn't to say though that it is lacking in fine performances.  Most of the Hispanic actors other than Garcia may not be particularly familiar to North American audiences, but the acting is excellent in a project where many of them worked for scale plus in a labor of love.  As might be expected, director/star Garcia leads the way with a performance full of subtleties of expression that I quite frankly thought was beyond him. By way of comparison, the very best aspects of his performance in the last third of Godfather III are distilled to quality and sensitivity a hundred times better than he showed there.

Ordinarily, I would expect such a fine performance to be a launching pad for many more mature roles than he's played to date, but this doesn't take into account the great risk Garcia took in producing a film hostile to Castro and communists.  Undoubtedly this puts him at great risk in the Twenty First Century world of Hollywood, where those figures are considered heroes, if not secular saints. In fact, Garcia is quite open in stating that he was forced to go outside of the normal Hollywood funding sources in order to finance The Lost City.  One can only hope that such a finely crafted film and performance will be appropriately recognized and not punished in the Marxist milieu of the American film industry. The Lost City is a product of great courage of conviction,  which is rewarded in almost every aspect of the performances.