As a longtime fan of Lynch's work (notably Twin Peaks), I can easily say this is not only my favorite, but probably Lynch's best and most important. It is an American classic not in the usual sense of the word. It takes the cliched stereotypical setting of small town America and does what other similar films have repeatedly failed to do: iluminate the darkness there that lies within not behind those town's drawn curtains, but also within all of us, our motives laid bare.

This is a dark, upsetting, graphic and disturbing film. The plot is deceptively, simple however. Amidst patrotic images of waving firemen and cheery local lumberjacks, as well as colorful hardware store employees, college student Jeffrey Beaumont returns from college to his hometown of Lumberton, North Carolina (which is every bit as weird in real life as it is portrayed on film, haha, I grew up not too far away) when his father falls ill of stroke. There he discovers a severed human ear in a vacant lot, and with the help of lovely Laura Dern (in an amusingly fifties-type style of dress), tracks that ear to the gloomy Lincoln Street apartment of soul singer Dorothy Vallens. Vallens is being repeatedly sexually abused by her husband and young child's ransomer, Frank Booth, a nitrus oxide addict with a penchant for sudden and unpredictable violence.

I won't explain the plot further beyond this point, instead I'll leave the films various subplots and subtexts for your approval. The performances themselves in this film are what make the movie. I do not agree with the other reviewer referring to Kyle Maclachlan as wooden. I find him to be a fine actor, perfectly suited to the naive Jeffrey Beaumont, whose innocence in shattered within the frame of this fine film. Laura Dern is pleasantly supportive as Jeffrey's love interest. But it is Rosselinni and Hopper who shine here. The former gives a perfect portrait of how deeply the effects of repeated sexual violence have affected her mental state. Hopper is in his finest, most troubling performance here, truly made for the role of frightening criminal Frank Booth, a nightmare creature made more horrifying by the fact that there are surely numerous men and women out there just like him. Also notable, Dean Stockwell plays a fine supportive role here as the lounge-crooning Ben, friend of our movie's villain.

The sex is not graphic in this film; however the violence towards the end of the movie is both realistic and unsettling. I can deal with much film gore but there is something about the last 20 minutes or so of this film that haunts me morally. Perhaps Lynch's surreal directing made it all the more disorienting. In any event, this is a fine film, very important to the history of modern American cinema, and deserving of Oscars it never won. :( Five stars all the way, highly recommended. You won't be disappointed. But remember, there's a little Frank Booth in all of us.