I loved the first 2 series of Agatha Christie's Marple, and I've always been a fan of the books, so when I heard they were making a 3rd series I couldn't wait. Luckily, I wasn't disappointed - this series is very fun and engaging.

I've read a lot of negative reviews of these new adaptations, and from what I can gather, most were written by people who really love the old Joan Hickson series from the 1980s. Personally, I never really enjoyed those. Joan Hickson was too aloof, and the adaptations were very dour and lacked the humor of the novels. These adaptations, on the other hand, are great fun. They have a slick and glossy look to them, the costumes and sets are exquisite, and the performances are great. All the actors look as if they're having a great time, which is always fun to see.

A lot of people also complain about the plot changes to the novels, which admittedly are more prevalent in this series than in the first two. However, the Joan Hickson series already made 12 ultra-faithful adaptations - why take that route again? I find that, for the most part, the liberties taken with the original plots pay off. As much as I love the original books, they weren't perfect, and often these new changes alter aspects of the books that I disliked. For instance, I always found "Nemesis" to be one of Christie's weakest Miss Marple books, and I frankly preferred this new (albeit very radical) adaptation.

The only reason I hesitate to give this series 5 stars is "Ordeal By Innocence" - the fourth episode of the series. It was never one of my favourite Christie books, and even though the adaptation made some changes, I found it curiously flat and unengaging. Jane Seymour really sinks her teeth into the malicious queen-bee role, but for the most part I found the story boring and silly. Aside from that, all the episode were very good (especially "Nemesis" and "At Bertram's Hotel"). As in the first 2 series, Geraldine McEwan is the perfect Miss Marple - sly, intelligent, and always 2 steps ahead of everyone else.

If you enjoyed the first 2 series, or even if you just enjoy mystery series in general, I really recommend the new Miss Marple. Enjoy!