I received my UK version of the Universal Studios Monster collection yesterday and the first word that comes to mind is WOW!!!! There has been so much rumor and misinformation about this set that I wasn't sure what to expect. It turns out that it has the best of all worlds and I couldn't be more pleased. I was afraid the digi-packs were only included in the "coffin" version but that's not the case. The discs pop out upon pushing the center button without any undue effort so damage from bending should not be an issue. The miniature posters are all here as well as the booklet. All this for a total cost (including a credit card foreign transaction fee) of about $55. What a deal!!!! That's half the cost of the US release with the cardboard sleeve disc holders. The blu-ray discs play fine in both the features and the extras, and all the extras are here. I first watched "Dracula" and the picture and sound was so much improved over any version I had seen before that it was like seeing it for the first time. No flicker, jitter, scratches, snow or other visual distractions. And the sound is equal to the picture in every respect.
I hadn't planned to watch another movie last night because I planned to savor them over a week watching one disc a day, but after watching "Dracula" I read a review on Amazon that indicated problems with the "The Creature from the Black Lagoon" disc. The creature is my favorite and the idea that something might be amiss put me into panic mode. I quickly loaded the Black Lagoon disc into my Panasonic and began anxiously watching for flaws. Within only a few minutes I became so enthralled in seeing the creature in its restored and correct wide screen glory that I forgot about any possible problems. I'm pleased to report that "Creature" played without any glitches. I didn't realize how much difference the widescreen presentation would make, but the improvement was significant. Not only did the correct aspect ratio get rid of that irritating utility pole and crossarm so clearly visible as they are entering the Black Lagoon, but also seemed to focus the action in each scene. I'm totally pleased!!!
I may add to this review after watching all the discs but for now I have nothing but praise for this set!!!
Kudos Universal for a job well done!!!