I really liked "the American." I wish Hollywood made at least a few more movies like this. The American" is about suspense and uncertainty, beautiful scenery, love scenes, and all the personal and moral collateral damage that comes from living the life of an assassin.

The typical Hollwood action hero is fast, loud, drives powerful cars, and draws lots of attention to themself. If there's any time for romance, the only real challenge is usually to clear the bad guys out of the way first so they can ride off into the sunset. If those who get killed even have a real personality and a face, Hollywood quickly provides convenient excuses for why the hero and you can feel justified to kill them. Who is a  bad guy and who you can trust and all the plotlines are neatly tied up by the end. Usually everything's a caricature - the backdrop either looks everything was all built in the last two years or else it's someone's stereotype of an urban ghetto. This is not that movie.

"The American" is a glimpse of what anyone who actually lived the secret agent lifestyle would miss out on in life. Here the hero can't be brash and damn-the-consequences - quite the opposite - his life totally depends on being quiet and staying out of the light. Boring you say? Well, your typical action hero who talks and acts like they can do anything wouldn't last more than two or three weeks as an assassin in the world of "The American."

Unlike so many action/adventure movies, "the American" doesn't glamorize guns, technology, power, or violence. Here there are as many motor scooters and trains as there are fast sportscars. Not an indie film, but I would call it something of an anti-Hollywood film. If it doesn't neatly fit the standard categories for what you expect in a movie, I say that's a pretty good critique of the standard categories. Look through the list of movies on redbox, netflix or Blockbuster and count 'em up and tell me we really need one more mindless angry shoot-em-up movie just like all the others instead of one movie like "the American."

Yeah, if you watch this movie expecting an adrenaline rush of shoot-em-up scenes and vengeance you'll probably be disappointed. You will find enouh movies in this category to watch a different one every day all year long. If on the other hand you'd really like to see something a little different from the stock formula Hollywood usually serves up, enjoy this as a rare treat.