Of all the movies I've watched in the past year, I can honestly say "Prom Night" is the ONLY movie I sat through that doesn't even deserve a single star rating. Keep in mind that I've seen "C.H.O.M.P.S.", "Frogs", "Manos, The Hands of Fate" and "Plan 9 From Outer Space" all within the past 3 months...and enjoyed each of them much more than "Prom Night"....it is simply AWFUL!

Where do you start with this thing?

1. It's a slasher movie. I love slasher movies, it's my favorite horror genre. I grew up in the early 80's when a new slasher flick came out every weekend, and I saw them all. What is the attraction of the slasher flick? Watching the kills of course. You want to see Jason slaughter camp counselors in imaginitive or gory ways, it's the DNA of a good slasher flick. "Prom Night" is supposed to be a slasher flick, except it has almost no slashing! The slashing that is present has no gore! If someone stabs a worthless teen with a knife there should be blood! Why try to make a PG-13 slasher movie? Go ahead and make all the blue tinted PG-13 Asian ghost stories you want. Folks are lining up to watch PG-13 vampires turn all sparkly in the sunlight while molesting high school girls, that's all fine and dandy, but don't water down the slasher genre.

2. Are all Prom's multi-million dollar affairs these days? Since when do paparazzi show up at high school proms and line the red carpet? Where are the ugly people in this school? Even the killer looks like he just walked off the set of a Target commercial. The rest of the cast is made up of the usual rainbow coalition characters found in every teen flick pumped out these days. Everyone is so bland and boring, you simply can't wait to see them killed. Unfortunately even when they do die, it's so blah you can't even root for the killer.

Please, as a fellow horror fan, I implore you, don't waste your time here. Feel free to go back and watch the remake of "Black Christmas" or "The Fog" instead. I thought both of those remakes represented the nadir of horror remakes but I learned my lesson after watching "Prom Night"....the pit of suck isn't deep enough for Hollywood and they can always sink further.