SAY ANYTHING
Long before he wowed audiences with "Vanilla Sky" or stole the hearts of moviegoers with "Jerry Maguire", Cameron Crowe left his mark on Gen X'ers with this early effort. On the heels of countless John Hughes films, Crowe's romantic comedy was a coming of age for X'ers weaned on "Pretty In Pink" and looking for one last teen fairy tale before graduating to the reality of grown up life. Crowe nabbed John Cusack to play Lloyd Dobbler, the loveable lead in his grown up teen romance. Poised on the verge of adulthood, and unsure what life holds, Lloyd takes his shot at greatness by asking out the girl of his dreams, Dianne Court. (Ione Skye) 
This odd pair seem mismatched for reasons that go beyond the usual high school cliques. That these two characters are from vastly different worlds is brilliantly demonstrated by their respective families. Lloyd lives with his single mom older sister (Joan Cusack) and drifts aimlessly through life as the eternal optimist, looking for a "dare to be great" situation. Diane's life is much more structured and planned out in great deal by her doting single father. (John Mahoney in pre-Frasier days.) With everything she ever wanted, Dianne realizes that she has missed out on the kind of friendships that drive Lloyd's life. 
Their unlikely romance gets off to the expected shaky start, but Cusack's machine gun delivery of Crowe's razor sharp dialog win her over. It seems impossible for Dianne to resist his charm and completely believable that she would fall for him. She struggles to keep her life in order and keep him at a distance, but eventually lets him in. This movie features one of the most memorable song placements of the era, with Peter Gabriel's "In Your Eyes" playing at their most intimate moment and again later in a heart tugging scene outside Diane's window. (Admit it, how many guys have repeated this scene in the vain hope it might just win her back?)
As her new romance grows, Dianne has to watch as her father's world comes crumbling around them both. Torn between the two important relationships in her life and facing the culmination of her dreams, Dianne struggles with choices. Crowe writes one of the best and most realistic break up scenes ever captured on film. Who can forget the post break up line "I gave her my heart and she gave me a pen." From here the movie could easily have fallen into the trap that so many other teen love stories do, but Crowe uses the strong side characters to give the film an uncommon depth and genuine emotion. 
With brilliant performances from Cusack, Skye and Mahoney, Crowe's dialog flows easily and gives "Say Anything" a beautiful realism from start to finish. 
Included on this DVD are a number of bonus features including a running commentary by Crowe, Skye & Cusack. There are five alternate scenes that don't show much. The deleted scenes offer a lot more though, including a lengthy monologue by Mahoney about the quality of care for the elderly. A pair of theatrical trailers and full slate of TV spots combine nicely with a featurette complete a nice collection of bonus material.