Okay so let me get this out of the way before I even go into a decription or review, I'm not the biggest Adam Sandler fan, I've seen plenty of his movies and I really hate when he plays the same moronic character all the time, there are exceptions to this and I have to say Don't Mess With The Zohan (just Zohan for short) is definately one of the better ones in my opinion. This movie is so over the top, it doesn't even try to be serious and thats not a bad thing. I found myself laughing many times through out this movie, and every time I thought I had seen it all something wackier would happen in the next scene.

  Adam Sandler plays an Israeli Special Forces soldier Zohan Dvir, who is really good at what he does, but is tired of fighting and wants to come to America to become a hairdresser, when he tells his parents of this they laugh at him. So Zohan decides to fake his own death on his next assignment where he is to hunt down his Palestinian nemesis (The Phantom)  played by John Turturro. After his faked death Zohan stowes away in the luggage compartment of a plane where he gives himself a haircut, as well as the two pooches he's sharing a cage with Scrappy and Coco, this is where he gets his American name from (Scrappy Coco). Once in America Zohan tries to get a job at the Paul Mitchell Salon but is laughed at, eventually he ends up working in a small time shop run by a Palestinina woman named Dalia played by Emmanuelle Chriqui. With his unusual style and ways with the older women Zohan turns this little shop into the talk of the town. Zohan has to deal with an angry business man (played by Michael Buffer), an ex-enemy who recognizes him (Rob Schneider), white supremacists the leader played by James O'Skanlon, and the return of the Phantom who had become a local hero in his country after he thought he killed Zohan. The madness goes on and on.

  This movie is so over the top, and Adam Sandler is great as Zohan in this movie who is practically super human it's ridiculous but in a good way. I saw the movie over Netflixes streaming service, and would urge anyone who has this service and has not seen this movie to check it out, I give this movie a 4 out of 5 which considering comedies are not my favorite type of movies shows how much I did enjoy it. One final note this movie may not be suitable for children so use caution.